Element ID	Element Name	Description
1	Worker Characteristics	Personal traits and abilities that affect how people learn and perform at work.
1.A	Abilities	Natural talents and capabilities that affect how well someone can perform work.
1.A.1	Cognitive Abilities	Abilities that influence the acquisition and application of knowledge in problem solving
1.A.1.a	Verbal Abilities	Abilities that influence the acquisition and application of verbal information in problem solving
1.A.1.a.1	Oral Comprehension	The ability to listen to and understand information and ideas presented through spoken words and sentences.
1.A.1.a.2	Written Comprehension	The ability to read and understand information and ideas presented in writing.
1.A.1.a.3	Oral Expression	The ability to communicate information and ideas in speaking so others will understand.
1.A.1.a.4	Written Expression	The ability to communicate information and ideas in writing so others will understand.
1.A.1.b	Idea Generation and Reasoning Abilities	Abilities that influence the application and manipulation of information in problem solving
1.A.1.b.1	Fluency of Ideas	The ability to come up with a number of ideas about a topic (the number of ideas is important, not their quality, correctness, or creativity).
1.A.1.b.2	Originality	The ability to come up with unusual or clever ideas about a given topic or situation, or to develop creative ways to solve a problem.
1.A.1.b.3	Problem Sensitivity	The ability to tell when something is wrong or is likely to go wrong. It does not involve solving the problem, only recognizing that there is a problem.
1.A.1.b.4	Deductive Reasoning	The ability to apply general rules to specific problems to produce answers that make sense.
1.A.1.b.5	Inductive Reasoning	The ability to combine pieces of information to form general rules or conclusions (includes finding a relationship among seemingly unrelated events).
1.A.1.b.6	Information Ordering	The ability to arrange things or actions in a certain order or pattern according to a specific rule or set of rules (e.g., patterns of numbers, letters, words, pictures, mathematical operations).
1.A.1.b.7	Category Flexibility	The ability to generate or use different sets of rules for combining or grouping things in different ways.
1.A.1.c	Quantitative Abilities	Abilities that influence the solution of problems involving mathematical relationships
1.A.1.c.1	Mathematical Reasoning	The ability to choose the right mathematical methods or formulas to solve a problem.
1.A.1.c.2	Number Facility	The ability to add, subtract, multiply, or divide quickly and correctly.
1.A.1.d	Memory	Abilities related to the recall of available information
1.A.1.d.1	Memorization	The ability to remember information such as words, numbers, pictures, and procedures.
1.A.1.e	Perceptual Abilities	Abilities related to the acquisition and organization of visual information
1.A.1.e.1	Speed of Closure	The ability to quickly make sense of, combine, and organize information into meaningful patterns.
1.A.1.e.2	Flexibility of Closure	The ability to identify or detect a known pattern (a figure, object, word, or sound) that is hidden in other distracting material.
1.A.1.e.3	Perceptual Speed	The ability to quickly and accurately compare similarities and differences among sets of letters, numbers, objects, pictures, or patterns. The things to be compared may be presented at the same time or one after the other. This ability also includes comparing a presented object with a remembered object.
1.A.1.f	Spatial Abilities	Abilities related to the manipulation and organization of spatial information
1.A.1.f.1	Spatial Orientation	The ability to know your location in relation to the environment or to know where other objects are in relation to you.
1.A.1.f.2	Visualization	The ability to imagine how something will look after it is moved around or when its parts are moved or rearranged.
1.A.1.g	Attentiveness	Abilities related to application of attention
1.A.1.g.1	Selective Attention	The ability to concentrate on a task over a period of time without being distracted.
1.A.1.g.2	Time Sharing	The ability to shift back and forth between two or more activities or sources of information (such as speech, sounds, touch, or other sources).
1.A.2	Psychomotor Abilities	Abilities that influence the capacity to manipulate and control objects
1.A.2.a	Fine Manipulative Abilities	Abilities related to the manipulation of objects
1.A.2.a.1	Arm-Hand Steadiness	The ability to keep your hand and arm steady while moving your arm or while holding your arm and hand in one position.
1.A.2.a.2	Manual Dexterity	The ability to quickly move your hand, your hand together with your arm, or your two hands to grasp, manipulate, or assemble objects.
1.A.2.a.3	Finger Dexterity	The ability to make precisely coordinated movements of the fingers of one or both hands to grasp, manipulate, or assemble very small objects.
1.A.2.b	Control Movement Abilities	Abilities related to the control and manipulation of objects in time and space
1.A.2.b.1	Control Precision	The ability to quickly and repeatedly adjust the controls of a machine or a vehicle to exact positions.
1.A.2.b.2	Multilimb Coordination	The ability to coordinate two or more limbs (for example, two arms, two legs, or one leg and one arm) while sitting, standing, or lying down. It does not involve performing the activities while the whole body is in motion.
1.A.2.b.3	Response Orientation	The ability to choose quickly between two or more movements in response to two or more different signals (lights, sounds, pictures). It includes the speed with which the correct response is started with the hand, foot, or other body part.
1.A.2.b.4	Rate Control	The ability to time your movements or the movement of a piece of equipment in anticipation of changes in the speed and/or direction of a moving object or scene.
1.A.2.c	Reaction Time and Speed Abilities	Abilities related to speed of manipulation of objects
1.A.2.c.1	Reaction Time	The ability to quickly respond (with the hand, finger, or foot) to a signal (sound, light, picture) when it appears.
1.A.2.c.2	Wrist-Finger Speed	The ability to make fast, simple, repeated movements of the fingers, hands, and wrists.
1.A.2.c.3	Speed of Limb Movement	The ability to quickly move the arms and legs.
1.A.3	Physical Abilities	Abilities that influence strength, endurance, flexibility, balance and coordination
1.A.3.a	Physical Strength Abilities	Abilities related to the capacity to exert force
1.A.3.a.1	Static Strength	The ability to exert maximum muscle force to lift, push, pull, or carry objects.
1.A.3.a.2	Explosive Strength	The ability to use short bursts of muscle force to propel oneself (as in jumping or sprinting), or to throw an object.
1.A.3.a.3	Dynamic Strength	The ability to exert muscle force repeatedly or continuously over time. This involves muscular endurance and resistance to muscle fatigue.
1.A.3.a.4	Trunk Strength	The ability to use your abdominal and lower back muscles to support part of the body repeatedly or continuously over time without "giving out" or fatiguing.
1.A.3.b	Endurance	The ability to exert oneself physically over long periods without getting out of breath
1.A.3.b.1	Stamina	The ability to exert yourself physically over long periods of time without getting winded or out of breath.
1.A.3.c	Flexibility, Balance, and Coordination	Abilities related to the control of gross body movements
1.A.3.c.1	Extent Flexibility	The ability to bend, stretch, twist, or reach with your body, arms, and/or legs.
1.A.3.c.2	Dynamic Flexibility	The ability to quickly and repeatedly bend, stretch, twist, or reach out with your body, arms, and/or legs.
1.A.3.c.3	Gross Body Coordination	The ability to coordinate the movement of your arms, legs, and torso together when the whole body is in motion.
1.A.3.c.4	Gross Body Equilibrium	The ability to keep or regain your body balance or stay upright when in an unstable position.
1.A.4	Sensory Abilities	Abilities that influence visual, auditory and speech perception
1.A.4.a	Visual Abilities	Abilities related to visual sensory input
1.A.4.a.1	Near Vision	The ability to see details at close range (within a few feet of the observer).
1.A.4.a.2	Far Vision	The ability to see details at a distance.
1.A.4.a.3	Visual Color Discrimination	The ability to match or detect differences between colors, including shades of color and brightness.
1.A.4.a.4	Night Vision	The ability to see under low-light conditions.
1.A.4.a.5	Peripheral Vision	The ability to see objects or movement of objects to one's side when the eyes are looking ahead.
1.A.4.a.6	Depth Perception	The ability to judge which of several objects is closer or farther away from you, or to judge the distance between you and an object.
1.A.4.a.7	Glare Sensitivity	The ability to see objects in the presence of a glare or bright lighting.
1.A.4.b	Auditory and Speech Abilities	Abilities related to auditory and oral input
1.A.4.b.1	Hearing Sensitivity	The ability to detect or tell the differences between sounds that vary in pitch and loudness.
1.A.4.b.2	Auditory Attention	The ability to focus on a single source of sound in the presence of other distracting sounds.
1.A.4.b.3	Sound Localization	The ability to tell the direction from which a sound originated.
1.A.4.b.4	Speech Recognition	The ability to identify and understand the speech of another person.
1.A.4.b.5	Speech Clarity	The ability to speak clearly so others can understand you.
1.B	Career Interests	Work types and activities you enjoy.
1.B.1	Career Interest Types	Broad types of work you enjoy.
1.B.1.a	Realistic	Work involves designing, building, or repairing of equipment, materials, or structures, engaging in physical activity, or working outdoors. Realistic occupations are often associated with engineering, mechanics and electronics, construction, woodworking, transportation, machine operation, agriculture, animal services, physical or manual labor, athletics, or protective services.
1.B.1.b	Investigative	Work involves studying and researching non-living objects, living organisms, disease or other forms of impairment, or human behavior. Investigative occupations are often associated with physical, life, medical, or social sciences, and can be found in the fields of humanities, mathematics/statistics, information technology, or health care service.
1.B.1.c	Artistic	Work involves creating original visual artwork, performances, written works, food, or music for a variety of media, or applying artistic principles to the design of various objects and materials. Artistic occupations are often associated with visual arts, applied arts and design, performing arts, music, creative writing, media, or culinary art.
1.B.1.d	Social	Work involves helping, teaching, advising, assisting, or providing service to others. Social occupations are often associated with social, health care, personal service, teaching/education, or religious activities.
1.B.1.e	Enterprising	Work involves managing, negotiating, marketing, or selling, typically in a business setting, or leading or advising people in political and legal situations. Enterprising occupations are often associated with business initiatives, sales, marketing/advertising, finance, management/administration, professional advising, public speaking, politics, or law.
1.B.1.f	Conventional	Work involves following procedures and regulations to organize information or data, typically in a business setting. Conventional occupations are often associated with office work, accounting, mathematics/statistics, information technology, finance, or human resources.
1.B.1.g	First Interest High-Point	Primary-Rank Descriptiveness
1.B.1.h	Second Interest High-Point	Secondary-Cutoff/Rank Descriptiveness
1.B.1.i	Third Interest High-Point	Tertiary-Cutoff/Rank Descriptiveness
1.B.3	Specific Interest Areas	Work activities you enjoy.
1.B.3.a	Mechanics/Electronics	Work involves maintaining and repairing of machinery, such as automotive engines, electronic equipment, computers, and communication systems.
1.B.3.b	Construction/Woodwork	Work involves constructing, installing, or repairing structures and fixtures made of wood.
1.B.3.c	Transportation/Machine Operation	Work involves driving vehicles, such as vans, trucks, trains, and buses to transport people or materials. Work can also involve operating heavy equipment, such as cranes, forklifts, bulldozers, and backhoes to move materials or earth.
1.B.3.d	Physical/Manual Labor	Work involves manually unloading and moving freight, stock, luggage, or other materials, or performing other physical labor.
1.B.3.e	Protective Service	Work involves maintaining order and protecting life and property by conducting investigations and enforcing laws and regulations to prevent or solve crimes.
1.B.3.f	Agriculture	Work involves planting, cultivating, and harvesting crops, plants, or trees, or raising farm animals. Work can also involve preparing plant and animal products for distribution to consumers, or protecting natural resources to maximize their use in farming.
1.B.3.g	Nature/Outdoors	Work involves planning, restoring, and conserving natural areas and wildlife habitats.
1.B.3.h	Animal Service	Work involves feeding, grooming, exercising, or otherwise providing care to promote and maintain the well-being of pets and other animals in settings such as kennels, animal shelters, and zoos.
1.B.3.i	Athletics	Work involves training, practicing, or competing in athletic events, or supporting those participating in athletics through coaching, training, or officiating.
1.B.3.j	Engineering	Work involves applying science and technology to the design, building, testing, and use of electrical and electronic components, mechanical devices and machines, automotive, marine, and aerospace equipment and vehicles, materials, or structures.
1.B.3.k	Physical Science	Work involves studying and researching non-living objects, materials, and phenomena through scientific disciplines such as physics, chemistry, astronomy, meteorology, or geology.
1.B.3.l	Life Science	Work involves studying and researching living organisms through scientific disciplines such as biology, botany, zoology, microbiology, physiology, biochemistry, or zoology.
1.B.3.m	Medical Science	Work involves studying and researching the causes, nature, effects, and treatments of disease or other forms of impairment or illness.
1.B.3.n	Social Science	Work involves studying and researching human behavior, society, politics, and social relationships through scientific disciplines such as psychology, sociology, economics, or political science.
1.B.3.o	Humanities	Work involves studying and researching aspects of human history, culture, and language through disciplines such as history, philosophy, the language arts, or area/ethnic studies.
1.B.3.p	Mathematics/Statistics	Work involves developing and applying mathematics and statistical theory and methods.
1.B.3.q	Information Technology	Work involves designing, developing, testing, and maintaining computer software, hardware, networks, and systems.
1.B.3.r	Visual Arts	Work involves creating original visual artwork for a variety of media and purposes using various techniques and software.
1.B.3.s	Applied Arts and Design	Work involves applying artistic principles to the design and creation of various objects and materials.
1.B.3.t	Performing Arts	Work involves acting as a performer in dance, comedy, or dramatic productions, choreographing of dance performances, or producing of live or recorded entertainment.
1.B.3.u	Music	Work involves conducting, composing, or playing music or singing.
1.B.3.v	Creative Writing	Work involves developing creative written works, such as novels, scripts, song lyrics, poetry, stories, or advertisements.
1.B.3.w	Media	Work involves producing, developing, writing, directing, or presenting information through print, radio, television, or digital media.
1.B.3.x	Culinary Art	Work involves preparing, cooking, and presenting food in a distinctive style usually associated with a specific culture or region.
1.B.3.y	Teaching/Education	Work involves teaching through lectures, discussions, and demonstrations in one or more subjects.
1.B.3.z	Social Service	Work involves providing social services and assistance to improve the well-being and social and psychological functioning of children and adults.
1.B.3.aa	Health Care Service	Work involves providing health care services to individuals to include the diagnosis, prevention, or treatment of diseases and other forms of illness or impairment.
1.B.3.ab	Religious Activities	Work involves conducting religious worship, leading a church or other religious group, and offering moral guidance associated with beliefs and practices of a religious faith.
1.B.3.ac	Personal Service	Work involves providing personal services to individuals in need of non-medical assistance such as helping arrange or plan for travel, meals, or events.
1.B.3.ad	Professional Advising	Work involves providing expert advice, coaching, and counseling on topics such as careers, educational opportunities, and educational and professional development.
1.B.3.ae	Business Initiatives	Work involves creating strategic plans or taking actions to expand an organization's business or market share.
1.B.3.af	Sales	Work involves selling goods or services.
1.B.3.ag	Marketing/Advertising	Work involves promoting or creating a public image for products, services, or organizations to attract interest, engagement, or sales.
1.B.3.ah	Finance	Work involves directing and managing financial activities, such as planning and investments for an individual or organization to generate income.
1.B.3.ai	Accounting	Work involves examining, analyzing, and interpreting accounting records for financial statements, or maintaining, auditing, or evaluating records and accounts.
1.B.3.aj	Human Resources	Work involves recruiting, selecting, and training job applicants, maintaining employee personnel records, administering compensation and employee-benefit programs, and conducting employee performance reviews.
1.B.3.ak	Office Work	Work involves clerical and administrative tasks for an organization such as answering phones, bookkeeping, updating records, scheduling appointments or meetings, and editing of documents and files.
1.B.3.al	Management/Administration	Work involves planning, directing, or coordinating the daily operations of an organization, and overseeing personnel, business, or administrative services.
1.B.3.am	Public Speaking	Work involves speaking before an audience to educate, entertain, or influence the listeners.
1.B.3.an	Politics	Work involves engaging in political activities to influence government policy.
1.B.3.ao	Law	Work involves studying and applying legal knowledge.
1.D	Work Styles	Personality tendencies exhibited at work, which can affect how well someone performs a job.
1.D.1	Proactive and Growth Oriented	A tendency to proactively pursue excellence through setting high standards, engaging in continuous learning, and persisting and adapting in the face of challenges and uncertainty at work.
1.D.1.a	Innovation	A tendency to be inventive, to be imaginative, and to adopt new perspectives on ways to accomplish work.
1.D.1.b	Achievement Orientation	A tendency to establish and maintain personally challenging work-related goals, set high work-related standards, and exert high effort toward meeting those goals and standards.
1.D.1.c	Intellectual Curiosity	A tendency to seek out and acquire new work-related knowledge and obtain a deep understanding of work-related subjects.
1.D.1.d	Tolerance for Ambiguity	A tendency to be comfortable with ambiguity and uncertainty at work.
1.D.1.e	Initiative	A tendency to be proactive and take on extra responsibilities and tasks that may fall outside of one's required work role.
1.D.1.f	Adaptability	A tendency to be open to and comfortable with change, new experiences, or ideas at work.
1.D.1.g	Self-Confidence	A tendency to believe in one's work-related capabilities and ability to control one's work-related outcomes.
1.D.1.h	Perseverance	A tendency to exhibit determination and resolve to perform or complete tasks in the face of difficult circumstances or obstacles at work.
1.D.1.i	Leadership Orientation	A tendency to lead, take charge, offer opinions, and provide direction at work.
1.D.2	Interpersonally Oriented	A tendency to engage with others in a positive, supportive, selfless, and considerate manner at work.
1.D.2.a	Humility	A tendency to be modest and humble when interacting with others at work.
1.D.2.b	Sincerity	A tendency to be genuine and sincere in interactions with others at work, without concern for personal gain or self-interest.
1.D.2.c	Empathy	A tendency to show concern for others and be sensitive to others' needs and feelings at work.
1.D.2.d	Cooperation	A tendency to be pleasant, helpful, and willing to assist others at work.
1.D.2.e	Optimism	A tendency to exhibit a positive attitude and positive emotions at work, even under difficult circumstances.
1.D.2.f	Social Orientation	A tendency to seek out, enjoy, and be energized by social interaction at work.
1.D.3	Conscientious and Rule Oriented	A tendency to approach work with careful attention to quality, reliability, and ethical standards while maintaining organized and thorough work practices.
1.D.3.a	Cautiousness	A tendency to be careful, deliberate, and risk-avoidant when making work-related decisions or doing work.
1.D.3.b	Attention to Detail	A tendency to be detail-oriented, organized, and thorough in completing work.
1.D.3.c	Dependability	A tendency to be reliable, responsible, and consistent in meeting work-related obligations.
1.D.3.d	Integrity	A tendency to be honest and ethical at work.
1.D.4	Emotionally Resilient	A tendency to maintain emotional stability and cope effectively in the face of adversity, criticism, or high-pressure situations at work.
1.D.4.a	Stress Tolerance	A tendency to cope and function effectively in stressful situations at work.
1.D.4.b	Self-Control	A tendency to remain calm and composed and to manage emotions effectively in response to criticism or difficult situations at work.
2	Worker Requirements	Skills and knowledge people need for work, developed through education and experience.
2.A	Essential Skills	Skills you need for most jobs such as reading, writing, math, and learning.
2.A.1	Foundational Areas	Areas that support learning and applying skills across many types of work.
2.A.1.a	Reading Comprehension	Understanding written sentences and paragraphs in work-related documents.
2.A.1.b	Active Listening	Giving full attention to what other people are saying, taking time to understand the points being made, asking questions as appropriate, and not interrupting at inappropriate times.
2.A.1.c	Writing	Communicating effectively in writing as appropriate for the needs of the audience.
2.A.1.d	Speaking	Talking to others to convey information effectively.
2.A.1.e	Mathematics	Using mathematics to solve problems.
2.A.1.f	Science	Using scientific rules and methods to solve problems.
2.A.2	Ways of Working	Ways of doing work that support learning and building skills.
2.A.2.a	Critical Thinking	Using logic and reasoning to identify the strengths and weaknesses of alternative solutions, conclusions, or approaches to problems.
2.A.2.b	Active Learning	Understanding the implications of new information for both current and future problem-solving and decision-making.
2.A.2.c	Learning Strategies	Selecting and using training/instructional methods and procedures appropriate for the situation when learning or teaching new things.
2.A.2.d	Monitoring	Monitoring/Assessing performance of yourself, other individuals, or organizations to make improvements or take corrective action.
2.B	Transferable Skills	Skills you can use across different jobs such as communication, problem solving, and team work.
2.B.1	Social Skills	Skills used to work with others to achieve goals at work.
2.B.1.a	Social Perceptiveness	Being aware of others' reactions and understanding why they react as they do.
2.B.1.b	Coordination	Adjusting actions in relation to others' actions.
2.B.1.c	Persuasion	Persuading others to change their minds or behavior.
2.B.1.d	Negotiation	Bringing others together and trying to reconcile differences.
2.B.1.e	Instructing	Teaching others how to do something.
2.B.1.f	Service Orientation	Actively looking for ways to help people.
2.B.2	Complex Problem Solving Skills	Skills used to solve new and challenging problems at work.
2.B.2.i	Complex Problem Solving	Identifying complex problems and reviewing related information to develop and evaluate options and implement solutions.
2.B.3	Technical Skills	Skills used to design, set up, operate, and fix machines and systems at work.
2.B.3.a	Operations Analysis	Analyzing needs and product requirements to create a design.
2.B.3.b	Technology Design	Generating or adapting equipment and technology to serve user needs.
2.B.3.c	Equipment Selection	Determining the kind of tools and equipment needed to do a job.
2.B.3.d	Installation	Installing equipment, machines, wiring, or programs to meet specifications.
2.B.3.e	Programming	Writing computer programs for various purposes.
2.B.3.g	Operations Monitoring	Watching gauges, dials, or other indicators to make sure a machine is working properly.
2.B.3.h	Operation and Control	Controlling operations of equipment or systems.
2.B.3.j	Equipment Maintenance	Performing routine maintenance on equipment and determining when and what kind of maintenance is needed.
2.B.3.k	Troubleshooting	Determining causes of operating errors and deciding what to do about it.
2.B.3.l	Repairing	Repairing machines or systems using the needed tools.
2.B.3.m	Quality Control Analysis	Conducting tests and inspections of products, services, or processes to evaluate quality or performance.
2.B.4	Systems Skills	Skills used to understand and improve systems at work, such as processes, decision making, or workflows.
2.B.4.e	Judgment and Decision Making	Considering the relative costs and benefits of potential actions to choose the most appropriate one.
2.B.4.g	Systems Analysis	Determining how a system should work and how changes in conditions, operations, and the environment will affect outcomes.
2.B.4.h	Systems Evaluation	Identifying measures or indicators of system performance and the actions needed to improve or correct performance, relative to the goals of the system.
2.B.5	Resource Management Skills	Skills used to manage time, money, materials, and people effectively at work.
2.B.5.a	Time Management	Managing one's own time and the time of others.
2.B.5.b	Management of Financial Resources	Determining how money will be spent to get the work done, and accounting for these expenditures.
2.B.5.c	Management of Material Resources	Obtaining and seeing to the appropriate use of equipment, facilities, and materials needed to do certain work.
2.B.5.d	Management of Personnel Resources	Motivating, developing, and directing people as they work, identifying the best people for the job.
2.C	Knowledge	Information and understanding used across different areas of work.
2.C.1	Business and Management	Knowledge of principles and facts related to business administration and accounting, human and material resource management in organizations, sales and marketing, economics, and office information and organizing systems
2.C.1.a	Administration and Management	Knowledge of business and management principles involved in strategic planning, resource allocation, human resources modeling, leadership technique, production methods, and coordination of people and resources.
2.C.1.b	Administrative	Knowledge of administrative and office procedures and systems such as word processing, managing files and records, stenography and transcription, designing forms, and workplace terminology.
2.C.1.c	Economics and Accounting	Knowledge of economic and accounting principles and practices, the financial markets, banking, and the analysis and reporting of financial data.
2.C.1.d	Sales and Marketing	Knowledge of principles and methods for showing, promoting, and selling products or services. This includes marketing strategy and tactics, product demonstration, sales techniques, and sales control systems.
2.C.1.e	Customer and Personal Service	Knowledge of principles and processes for providing customer and personal services. This includes customer needs assessment, meeting quality standards for services, and evaluation of customer satisfaction.
2.C.1.f	Personnel and Human Resources	Knowledge of principles and procedures for personnel recruitment, selection, training, compensation and benefits, labor relations and negotiation, and personnel information systems.
2.C.2	Manufacturing and Production	Knowledge of principles and facts related to the production, processing, storage, and distribution of manufactured and agricultural goods
2.C.2.a	Production and Processing	Knowledge of raw materials, production processes, quality control, costs, and other techniques for maximizing the effective manufacture and distribution of goods.
2.C.2.b	Food Production	Knowledge of techniques and equipment for planting, growing, and harvesting food products (both plant and animal) for consumption, including storage/handling techniques.
2.C.3	Engineering and Technology	Knowledge of the design, development, and application of technology for specific purposes.
2.C.3.a	Computers and Electronics	Knowledge of circuit boards, processors, chips, electronic equipment, and computer hardware and software, including applications and programming.
2.C.3.b	Engineering and Technology	Knowledge of the practical application of engineering science and technology. This includes applying principles, techniques, procedures, and equipment to the design and production of various goods and services.
2.C.3.c	Design	Knowledge of design techniques, tools, and principles involved in production of precision technical plans, blueprints, drawings, and models.
2.C.3.d	Building and Construction	Knowledge of materials, methods, and the tools involved in the construction or repair of houses, buildings, or other structures such as highways and roads.
2.C.3.e	Mechanical	Knowledge of machines and tools, including their designs, uses, repair, and maintenance.
2.C.4	Mathematics and Science	Knowledge of the history, theories, methods, and applications of the physical, biological, social, mathematical, and geography
2.C.4.a	Mathematics	Knowledge of arithmetic, algebra, geometry, calculus, statistics, and their applications.
2.C.4.b	Physics	Knowledge and prediction of physical principles, laws, their interrelationships, and applications to understanding fluid, material, and atmospheric dynamics, and mechanical, electrical, atomic and sub-atomic structures and processes.
2.C.4.c	Chemistry	Knowledge of the chemical composition, structure, and properties of substances and of the chemical processes and transformations that they undergo. This includes uses of chemicals and their interactions, danger signs, production techniques, and disposal methods.
2.C.4.d	Biology	Knowledge of plant and animal organisms, their tissues, cells, functions, interdependencies, and interactions with each other and the environment.
2.C.4.e	Psychology	Knowledge of human behavior and performance; individual differences in ability, personality, and interests; learning and motivation; psychological research methods; and the assessment and treatment of behavioral and affective disorders.
2.C.4.f	Sociology and Anthropology	Knowledge of group behavior and dynamics, societal trends and influences, human migrations, ethnicity, cultures, and their history and origins.
2.C.4.g	Geography	Knowledge of principles and methods for describing the features of land, sea, and air masses, including their physical characteristics, locations, interrelationships, and distribution of plant, animal, and human life.
2.C.5	Health Services	Knowledge of principles and facts regarding diagnosing, curing, and preventing disease, and improving and preserving physical and mental health and well-being
2.C.5.a	Medicine and Dentistry	Knowledge of the information and techniques needed to diagnose and treat human injuries, diseases, and deformities. This includes symptoms, treatment alternatives, drug properties and interactions, and preventive health-care measures.
2.C.5.b	Therapy and Counseling	Knowledge of principles, methods, and procedures for diagnosis, treatment, and rehabilitation of physical and mental dysfunctions, and for career counseling and guidance.
2.C.6	Education and Training	Knowledge of principles and methods for curriculum and training design, teaching and instruction for individuals and groups, and the measurement of training effects.
2.C.7	Arts and Humanities	Knowledge of facts and principles related to the branches of learning concerned with human thought, language, and the arts.
2.C.7.a	English Language	Knowledge of the structure and content of the English language including the meaning and spelling of words, and rules of composition and grammar.
2.C.7.b	Foreign Language	Knowledge of the structure and content of a foreign (non-English) language including the meaning and spelling of words, rules of composition and grammar, and pronunciation.
2.C.7.c	Fine Arts	Knowledge of the theory and techniques required to compose, produce, and perform works of music, dance, visual arts, drama, and sculpture.
2.C.7.d	History and Archeology	Knowledge of historical events and their causes, indicators, and effects on civilizations and cultures.
2.C.7.e	Philosophy and Theology	Knowledge of different philosophical systems and religions. This includes their basic principles, values, ethics, ways of thinking, customs, practices, and their impact on human culture.
2.C.8	Law and Public Safety	Knowledge of regulations and methods for maintaining people and property free from danger, injury, or damage; the rules of public conduct established and enforced by legislation, and the political process establishing such rules.
2.C.8.a	Public Safety and Security	Knowledge of relevant equipment, policies, procedures, and strategies to promote effective local, state, or national security operations for the protection of people, data, property, and institutions.
2.C.8.b	Law and Government	Knowledge of laws, legal codes, court procedures, precedents, government regulations, executive orders, agency rules, and the democratic political process.
2.C.9	Communications	Knowledge of the science and art of delivering information
2.C.9.a	Telecommunications	Knowledge of transmission, broadcasting, switching, control, and operation of telecommunications systems.
2.C.9.b	Communications and Media	Knowledge of media production, communication, and dissemination techniques and methods. This includes alternative ways to inform and entertain via written, oral, and visual media.
2.C.10	Transportation	Knowledge of principles and methods for moving people or goods by air, rail, sea, or road, including the relative costs and benefits.
2.D	Education	Education typically required to perform a job.
2.D.1	Required Level of Education	The level of education required to perform a job.
2.D.2	Instructional Program Required	The instructional program required for this job
2.D.3	Education Level in Specific Subjects	The amount of education required in 15 subject areas to perform in a job. Subject areas cover most of the courses that occur in high school, junior college, college undergraduate degree programs, and other education and training programs
2.D.3.a	Technical Vocational	Courses focus on non-business technical skills, such as Agriculture, Industrial Arts, Automobile and Shop, and Electronics
2.D.3.b	Business Vocational	Courses focus on basic business skills, such as Word Processing, Filing, Bookkeeping/Basic Accounting
2.D.3.c	English/language Arts	Courses focus on reading, interpretation, and writing, such as Literature, Composition, Journalism, and Creative Writing
2.D.3.d	Oral Communication	Courses focus on oral communication and speech, such as Oral Communication, Speech, and Interpersonal Communication
2.D.3.e	Languages	Courses focus on reading, writing, and/or speaking languages other than English, such as French, Chinese, German, Japanese, Latin, Russian, and Spanish
2.D.3.f	Basic Math	Courses focus on basic and applied math, such as General Math and Business Math
2.D.3.g	Advanced Math	Courses focus on advanced topics in math, such as Algebra, Geometry, Calculus, and Statistics
2.D.3.h	Physical Science	Courses focus on the study of matter and/or energy, such as Physics, Chemistry, and Astronomy
2.D.3.i	Computer Science	Courses focus on computers and their uses, such as Programming, Information Systems Management, and Software Applications
2.D.3.j	Biological Science	Courses focus on the study of life and living beings, such as life science, biology, anatomy and physiology
2.D.3.k	Applied Science	Courses focus on the application of science, such as Engineering, Health, and Medicine
2.D.3.l	Social Science	Courses focus on the behavioral sciences, such as Social Studies, Economics, History, Psychology, and Sociology
2.D.3.m	Arts	Courses focus on visual and performing arts, such as Arts and Crafts, Music, Painting, Sculpture, Theater, and Voice
2.D.3.n	Humanities	Courses focus on cultural and philosophical aspects of humans, such as Minority Studies, Philosophy, and Religion
2.D.3.o	Physical Education	Courses focus on physical fitness and sports, such as Aerobics, Jogging, Weight Lifting, and Specific Sports
2.D.4	Job-Related Professional Certification	Certification: A credential awarded by a certification body based on an individual demonstrating through an examination process that he or she has acquired the designated knowledge, skills, and abilities to perform a specific job.
2.D.4.a	Job-Related Professional Certification	Possession of an occupational or industry certification to perform the job.
2.E	Software Skills	Using specific programs and applications for work tasks.
2.E.1	Business function specific software	Software to manage business operations, including project management, sales, or logistics.
2.E.1.a	Helpdesk or call center software	Software to enable help desk or call center operations.
2.E.1.b	Procurement software	Software to manage contracts or agreements with suppliers, negotiate conditions, or buy products or services.
2.E.1.c	Human resources software	Software to manage employee evaluations, track wages or absenteeism, maintain safety records, or manage hours or time off.
2.E.1.d	Materials requirements planning logistics and supply chain software	Software to manage, monitor, or optimize the flow of goods or services from an origin point to a destination.
2.E.1.e	Project management software	Software to plan, organize, staff, or control the completion of a product or set of tasks.
2.E.1.f	Inventory management software	Software to maintain the inventory of businesses including restaurants or retail shops.
2.E.1.g	Bar coding software	Software to interpret, print, or create bar codes for identifying commercial products or parts.
2.E.1.h	Label making software	Software to create or print custom labels with text or graphics.
2.E.1.i	Expert system software	Software to solve complex problems by applying rules to a set of known facts.
2.E.1.j	License management software	Software to manage or monitor the use of software with license restrictions. May track the number of copies in use or computer hardware configurations.
2.E.1.k	Office suite software	Software to provide word processing, spreadsheet, e-mail, presentations, or data management capabilities.
2.E.1.l	Sales and marketing software	Software to manage, plan, analyze, or automate marketing campaigns, content creation, or social media interactions.
2.E.1.m	Mailing and shipping software	Software to print postage stamps or shipping labels, or manage pickup or delivery of shipments.
2.E.1.n	Audit software	Software to manage internal company audits or controls. May analyze or extract data, detect forgeries, or provide ongoing monitoring.
2.E.1.o	Procedure management software	Software to create, manage, or monitor various work flow procedures, to increase efficiency in time or costs.
2.E.1.p	Process mapping and design software	Software to create visual representations of business work flows, also called flow charts or workflow diagrams.
2.E.2	Finance accounting and enterprise resource planning ERP software	Software to manage financial activities, including accounts payable, accounts receivable, billing, cost analysis, tax preparation, or financial reporting.
2.E.2.a	Accounting software	Software to enable business functions relating to accounting, such as recording transactions or managing budgets.
2.E.2.b	Enterprise resource planning ERP software	Software to integrate, monitor, or analyze data from multiple business operations within a unified system.
2.E.2.c	Tax preparation software	Software to manage or prepare financial information for tax reporting purposes.
2.E.2.d	Financial analysis software	Software to gather information or conduct financial analysis.
2.E.2.e	Time accounting software	Software to submit or manage time accounting for human resources.
2.E.2.f	Billing and invoicing software	Software to organize or automate billing, invoicing, or payment collection processes.
2.E.3	Computer game or entertainment software	Software to play games or provide entertainment on a computer.
2.E.3.a	Action games	Software games that focus on action or dexterity skills.
2.E.3.b	Music or sound editing software	Software to record or convert analog sounds to a digital format, or to apply effects such as fades, noise filtering, or volume adjustment.
2.E.4	Content authoring and editing software	Software to create or edit digital content.
2.E.4.a	Pattern design software	Software to design or print custom cross-stitch or needlework patterns. May import photos or hand-drawn images.
2.E.4.b	Graphics or photo imaging software	Software to draw or manipulate images. May adjust colors, add text, or apply special effects.
2.E.4.c	Video creation and editing software	Software to enable production of video content.
2.E.4.d	Word processing software	Software to create, edit, store, or print documents.
2.E.4.e	Charting software	Software to draw or create diagrams or charts. May include pre-built templates.
2.E.4.f	Presentation software	Software to create presentations, speeches, or slideshows.
2.E.4.g	Web page creation and editing software	Software to develop or edit web sites or individual pages.
2.E.4.h	Calendar and scheduling software	Software to plan or organize the activities of a person or group.
2.E.4.i	Spreadsheet software	Software to create or edit numbers or text organized into rows and columns of cells. May include formulas which recalculate values based on other cells.
2.E.4.j	Optical character reader OCR or scanning software	Software to convert an image of text, such as a scanned paper document or electronic fax file, into electronic text which can be edited or used in other applications.
2.E.4.k	Desktop publishing software	Software to create or edit text and graphics into documents such as books, magazines, brochures, or manuals.
2.E.5	Content management software	Software to organize, store, or manage documents or media.
2.E.5.a	Content workflow software	Software to create, manage, or optimize content creation processes. May include collaboration or scheduling features.
2.E.5.b	Document management software	Software to store, organize, or search documents or files from other software or from paper copies.
2.E.5.c	File versioning software	Software to archive and track edits to files for comparison and reference.
2.E.6	Data management and query software	Software to store, retrieve, or analyze data.
2.E.6.a	Categorization or classification software	Software to organize or label large amounts of information for easier searching or management.
2.E.6.b	Clustering software	Software to combine and share resources across different technology tiers or architectures.
2.E.6.c	Customer relationship management CRM software	Software to manage customer interactions.
2.E.6.d	Data base management system software	Software to store, organize, or provide access to a set of related information.
2.E.6.e	Data base reporting software	Software to produce summaries or visualizations of raw data stored in a database system.
2.E.6.f	Data base user interface and query software	Software to query, present, or edit information stored in a database sytem.
2.E.6.g	Data mining software	Software to access or automatically extract information from a data source.
2.E.6.h	Information retrieval or search software	Software to efficiently search or access data from sources such as large collections of documents.
2.E.6.i	Metadata management software	Software to manage or store "data about data" such as author, creation date, file size, or keywords.
2.E.6.j	Object oriented data base management software	Software to store, organize, or provide access to data represented as a set of objects, rather than tables.
2.E.6.k	Portal server software	Software to manage or create information portals.
2.E.6.l	Transaction server software	Software to isolate business logic in programs from platform-specific code, so each can be maintained independently. May provide transaction management, clustering, failover, or load balancing.
2.E.6.m	Business intelligence and data analysis software	Software to present, visualize, or analyze data to help businesses make informed decisions.
2.E.7	Development software	Software to design, build, test, or maintain applications.
2.E.7.a	Configuration management software	Software to control, create, manage, or record the physical or functional characteristics of hardware or software.
2.E.7.b	Development environment software	Software to create or maintain applications which run on a computer or mobile device.
2.E.7.c	Enterprise application integration software	Software to connect different business systems to improve scalability or streamline work flows.
2.E.7.d	Graphical user interface development software	Software to create or maintain applications which interact with users through a graphical interface.
2.E.7.e	Object or component oriented development software	Software to create or maintain applications using object-oriented programming concepts.
2.E.7.f	Program testing software	Software to test or evaluate applications to ensure they comply with specified requirements.
2.E.7.g	Requirements analysis and system architecture software	Software to create, manage, or monitor product development processes to comply with standards, specifications, or risk management policies.
2.E.7.h	Web platform development software	Software to create or maintain applications accessed through web sites or using web technologies such as HTML.
2.E.7.i	Compiler and decompiler software	Software to transform code from one language to another. May convert human-readable source code into machine language.
2.E.8	Educational or reference software	Software to support learning or to access reference information.
2.E.8.a	Foreign language software	Software to translate text from one language to another, or to aid in learning or translating languages.
2.E.8.b	Computer based training software	Software to create, manage, or provide instructional material or courses accessed from a computer.
2.E.8.c	Spell checkers	Software to check the spelling of words in a document against a dictionary of preferred spellings.
2.E.8.d	Route navigation software	Software to assist users in moving from one location to another along a selected path or route.
2.E.8.e	Multi-media educational software	Software to educate children or students using interactive or gaming elements.
2.E.8.f	Dictionary software	Software to provide the meaning and spelling of words. May include etymology or thesaurus features.
2.E.8.g	Voice synthesizer and recognition software	Software to generate or understand spoken words in order to provide alternative or easier-to-use application interfaces.
2.E.8.h	Geographic information system	Software to capture, manage, analyze, or display geographically-referenced information.
2.E.9	Industry specific software	Software to support specific industries or specialized fields.
2.E.9.a	Aviation ground support software	Software to enable aircraft ground support operations. May include aircraft maintenence or baggage handling features.
2.E.9.b	Facilities management software	Software to track, monitor, or analyze a facility's assets, space availability, or tenant information.
2.E.9.c	Computer aided design CAD software	Software to design 2D or 3D objects. May include engineering or architectural features.
2.E.9.d	Analytical or scientific software	Software to capture data, perform analysis, or generate reports or visualizations to support scientific research.
2.E.9.e	Compliance software	Software to monitor, check, or correct processes to achieve compliance with standards or federal, state, or local regulations.
2.E.9.f	Flight control software	Software to identify and respond to changes in aircraft stability or control characteristics in order to maintain flight performance.
2.E.9.g	Industrial control software	Software to control, configure, or monitor industrial processes. May communicate with intelligent electronic devices.
2.E.9.h	Library software	Software to acquire, catalog, search, or manage circulation of books or other library materials.
2.E.9.i	Medical software	Software to evaluate, plan, or redesign healthcare procedures. May include reporting or visualization features.
2.E.9.j	Point of sale POS software	Software to enable billing and purchase of goods or services at retail markets or shops. May provide sales reports.
2.E.9.k	Computer aided manufacturing CAM software	Software to control machine tools which fabricate or assemble objects.
2.E.9.l	Manufacturing execution system MES software	Software to measure, control, or monitor production activities. May include material tracking, quality control, or scheduling features.
2.E.9.m	Computer aided design CAD and computer aided manufacturing CAM system	Software to create and fabricate objects using computer-aided design (CAD) and computer-aided manufacturing (CAM) features.
2.E.9.n	Legal management software	Software to enable operations of legal offices or courts. May include management of appointments, plantiffs or defendants, documents, or fees.
2.E.9.o	Risk management data and analysis software	Software to collect, analyze, or visualize data to identify or assess risks.
2.E.10	Network applications software	Software to provide or access services over a network.
2.E.10.a	Application server software	Software to support or run applications which provide services through a communication protocol.
2.E.10.b	Desktop communications software	Software to provide or interact with telephone system, address book, fax, or e-mail services.
2.E.10.c	Interactive voice response software	Software to interact with telephone or voice mail callers using a pre-recorded database of voice messages, accepting input from voice or key presses.
2.E.10.d	Internet directory services software	Software to create or manage the mapping of files, users, or other network resources to unique identifiers.
2.E.10.e	Internet browser software	Software to view the contents of web pages and to navigate from one page to another.
2.E.11	Network management software	Software to monitor, control, or maintain computer networks.
2.E.11.a	Network monitoring software	Software to monitor, analyze, or detect network systems.
2.E.11.b	Network operating system enhancement software	Software to optimize the operations of OS software to maximize network speed or reliability.
2.E.11.c	Administration software	Software to manage computers, peripherals, or printers connected to a network. May detect new hardware or install software on connected devices.
2.E.11.d	Internet protocol IP multimedia subsystem software	Software to enable services using the IP Multimedia Subsystem standard.
2.E.11.e	Cloud-based management software	Software to manage hybrid, private, or public cloud-based systems and infrastructure.
2.E.12	Networking software	Software to manage or support communication or resource sharing across networks.
2.E.12.a	Access software	Software to enable remote access of a computer system across a network.
2.E.12.b	Communications server software	Software to provide voice, fax, or data messaging services for an office or workgroup.
2.E.12.c	Contact center software	Software to manage customer interactions across multiple channels such as telephone, email, or social media.
2.E.12.d	Fax software	Software to send, receive, or manage faxes.
2.E.12.e	LAN software	Software to enable communication across a local area network (LAN).
2.E.12.f	Storage networking software	Software to store or retrieve data on a network-attached device such as a hard drive or tape drive.
2.E.12.g	Switch or router software	Software to connect a local area network (LAN) to the Internet. May provide network address translation (NAT) or route traffic between LANs.
2.E.12.h	WAN switching software and firmware	Software to enable communication across a wide-area network (WAN), which extends over a large geographic area.
2.E.12.i	Wireless software	Software to enable communication over wireless network protocols.
2.E.12.j	Network connectivity terminal emulation software	Software to communicate with remote host computers by imitating a hardware-based network terminal such as a VT-100.
2.E.12.k	Gateway software	Software to enable data flow between two networks.
2.E.12.l	Bridge software	Software to forward traffic between network segments, based on data link layer information.
2.E.12.m	Platform interconnectivity software	Software to enable communication between computers running different operating systems.
2.E.12.n	Software defined networking/ virtualization software	Software to control or direct network traffic using virtual networks which work in conjunction with a physical network.
2.E.13	Operating environment software	Software to run or manage computer systems or support applications.
2.E.13.a	Filesystem software	Software to manage or create a file system for a computing device.
2.E.13.b	Network operation system software	Software to connect computers or devices to a network by providing or enhancing the base operating system.
2.E.13.c	Operating system software	Software to provide the operational interface to a computer and provide higher-level services and APIs.
2.E.13.d	Computer imaging software	Software to create, manage, or apply images of a computer's operating system and files, to configure or restore computers to a known state.
2.E.14	Security and protection software	Software to protect systems or data from unauthorized access or threats.
2.E.14.a	Authentication server software	Software to provide services for authenticating users across a network.
2.E.14.b	Network security or virtual private network VPN management software	Software to manage network access capabilities or policies.
2.E.14.c	Network security and virtual private network VPN equipment software	Software to configure or maintain security or virtual private network (VPN) equipment.
2.E.14.d	Transaction security and virus protection software	Software to protect sensitive information, ensure the safe transfer of data, or detect or remove malware or computer viruses.
2.E.14.e	Cloud-based protection or security software	Software to protect information and resources in cloud environments, or to protect systems by using a cloud-based service for updates or configuration.
2.E.15	Utility and device driver software	Software to maintain system performance or to enable hardware devices to function properly.
2.E.15.a	Data conversion software	Software to transform information from one format to another.
2.E.15.b	Data compression software	Software to encode data in order to reduce storage space or network transmission time.
2.E.15.c	Device drivers or system software	Software to enable communication between hardware devices and applications or operating systems.
2.E.15.d	Voice recognition software	Software to convert spoken words into electronic text.
2.E.15.e	Storage media loading software	Software to control devices which automatically load or store data on media such as tapes, discs, or drives.
2.E.15.f	Backup or archival software	Software to back up information from computer systems to additional destinations such as networked servers or tape drives.
2.E.15.g	Text to speech conversion software	Software to convert electronic text into spoken words.
2.E.15.h	Eye tracking software	Software to track eye movements via a camera or similar device. May emulate a computer mouse or other input device.
2.E.16	Information exchange software	Software to send, receive, or manage information between systems or users.
2.E.16.a	Electronic mail software	Software to compose, send, or receive email.
2.E.16.b	Video conferencing software	Software to enable audio or video conferences between participants using networked devices.
2.E.16.c	Network conferencing software	Software to share files, remotely control computers, or transmit real-time data between participants using networked devices.
2.E.16.d	Instant messaging software	Software to enable private communication between participants using networked devices. May include chat rooms or notification services.
2.E.16.e	Map creation software	Software to place data or metadata on a map. May include surveying or engineering features.
2.E.16.f	Mobile operator specific application software	Software to support operations of mobile network or telecommunications service providers. May include billing, network planning, or customer service features.
2.E.16.g	Mobile messaging service software	Software to send or receive text or voice messages on a mobile device. May include SMS or voice mail capabilities.
2.E.16.h	Mobile location based services software	Software to provide content or services based on a device's geographical location.
2.E.16.i	Cloud-based data access and sharing software	Software to share or co-author computer files through cloud computing, where documents are stored in a central "cloud" of networked servers.
2.E.17	System management software	Software to monitor, manage, or maintain IT systems, applications, and infrastructure.
2.E.17.a	Enterprise system management software	Software to manage activities across enterprise IT systems, such as evaluating capacity or server availability, monitoring user activities, or installing software.
3	Experience Requirements	Work experience, training, or certifications needed for certain jobs.
3.A	Experience and Training	The amount of related work experience and training needed for a job.
3.A.1	Related Work Experience	Amount of related work experience required to get hired for the job?
3.A.2	On-Site or In-Plant Training	Amount of on-site or in-plant training (e.g., organized class room instruction) required to perform the job?
3.A.3	On-the-Job Training	Amount of on the job training required to perform the job?
3.A.4	Apprenticeship	Apprenticeship is a combination of on-the-job training and related instruction in which workers learn the practical and theoretical aspects of a highly skilled occupation. Apprenticeship programs can be sponsored by individual employers, joint employer and labor groups, and/or employer associations.
3.A.4.a	Job-related Apprenticeship	Completion of a job-related apprenticeship to perform the job.
3.D	Licensing	Required licenses, certifications, or registrations needed to perform a job.
3.D.1	License, Certificate, or Registration Required	At least one license, certificate, or registration is required to perform in this job, including a driver's or vehicle operator's license. The specific license(s), certificate(s), or registration(s) are listed.
3.D.2	Specific License or Certificate Required	Specific education, training, examination, or other requirements for obtaining the licenses, certificates, or registration needed to perform in this job
3.D.2.a	Post-Secondary Degree	Obtaining the licenses, certificates, or registration needed to perform in this job requires a post-secondary degree, for example an Associate's or Bachelor's degree.
3.D.2.b	Graduate Degree	Obtaining the licenses, certificates, or registration needed to perform in this job requires a graduate degree, for example, a Master's or Doctoral degree.
3.D.2.c	On-the-Job Training	Obtaining the licenses, certificates, or registration needed to perform in this job requires on-the-job training, including apprenticeships, internships, and other supervised experiences.
3.D.2.d	Examination	Obtaining the licenses, certificates, or registration needed to perform in this job requires an examination, for example, written, oral, or performance assessments.
3.D.2.e	Character References	Obtaining the licenses, certificates, or registration needed to perform in this job requires one or more character references from other individuals.
3.D.4	Additional Education and Training	Retaining the licenses, certificates, or registration needed to perform in this job requires additional course work.
3.D.5	Organization and Agency Requirements	Organizations or agencies requiring the specific licenses, certificates, or registration needed to perform in a job
3.D.5.a	Legal Requirement	Federal, state, or local law requires possessing specific licenses, certificates, or registration for performance in this job.
3.D.5.b	Employer Requirement	Employers require possessing specific licenses, certificates, or registration for performance in this job.
3.D.5.c	Union, Guild, or Professional Association	A union or professional association requires possessing specific licenses, certificates, or registration for performance in this job.
4	Occupational Requirements	What jobs involve, including work activities, conditions, and context.
4.A	Work Activities	Activities performed across a number of occupations. This hierarchy includes generalized, intermediate, and detailed work activities.
4.A.1	Information Input	Where and how are the information and data gained that are needed to perform this job?
4.A.1.a	Looking for and Receiving Job-Related Information	How is information obtained to perform this job?
4.A.1.a.1	Getting Information	Observing, receiving, and otherwise obtaining information from all relevant sources.
4.A.1.a.1.a	Study details of artistic productions.	
4.A.1.a.1.a.1	Review art or design materials.	
4.A.1.a.1.a.2	Study details of musical compositions.	
4.A.1.a.1.a.3	Review production information to determine costume or makeup requirements.	
4.A.1.a.1.a.4	Study scripts to determine project requirements.	
4.A.1.a.1.a.5	Review audio or video recordings.	
4.A.1.a.1.b	Read documents or materials to inform work processes.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.1	Read materials to determine needed actions.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.2	Read maps to determine routes.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.3	Review customer information.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.4	Read work orders or other instructions to determine product specifications or materials requirements.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.5	Read technical information needed to perform maintenance or repairs.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.6	Study blueprints or other instructions to determine equipment setup requirements.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.7	Read documents to gather technical information.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.8	Review technical documents to plan work.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.9	Review blueprints or specifications to determine work requirements.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.10	Review work orders or schedules to determine operations or procedures.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.11	Review blueprints or other instructions to determine operational methods or sequences.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.12	Evaluate reports or designs to determine work needs.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.13	Read work orders or descriptions of problems to determine repairs or modifications needed.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.14	Interpret blueprints, specifications, or diagrams to inform installation, development or operation activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.15	Review details of technical drawings or specifications.	
4.A.1.a.1.b.16	Read work orders to determine material or setup requirements.	
4.A.1.a.1.c	Investigate criminal or legal matters.	
4.A.1.a.1.c.1	Collect evidence for legal proceedings.	
4.A.1.a.1.c.2	Examine crime scenes to obtain evidence.	
4.A.1.a.1.c.3	Investigate crimes committed within organizations.	
4.A.1.a.1.c.4	Investigate legal issues.	
4.A.1.a.1.c.5	Examine records or other types of data to investigate criminal activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.c.6	Conduct hearings to investigate legal issues.	
4.A.1.a.1.c.7	Investigate illegal or suspicious activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.d	Gather information from physical or electronic sources.	
4.A.1.a.1.d.1	Obtain property information.	
4.A.1.a.1.d.2	Use databases to locate investigation details or other information.	
4.A.1.a.1.d.3	Search information sources to find specific data.	
4.A.1.a.1.d.4	Gather financial records.	
4.A.1.a.1.d.5	Retrieve information from electronic sources.	
4.A.1.a.1.d.6	Gather information in order to provide services to clients.	
4.A.1.a.1.d.7	Search files, databases or reference materials to obtain needed information.	
4.A.1.a.1.d.8	Collect archival data.	
4.A.1.a.1.e	Consult legal materials or public records.	
4.A.1.a.1.e.1	Evaluate information related to legal matters in public or personal records.	
4.A.1.a.1.e.2	Research relevant legal materials to aid decision making.	
4.A.1.a.1.f	Gather data about operational or development activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.f.1	Gather organizational performance information.	
4.A.1.a.1.f.2	Gather information about work conditions or locations.	
4.A.1.a.1.f.3	Gather physical survey data.	
4.A.1.a.1.f.4	Collect data about project sites.	
4.A.1.a.1.g	Obtain information about goods or services.	
4.A.1.a.1.g.1	Obtain information about goods or services.	
4.A.1.a.1.h	Research issues related to earth sciences.	
4.A.1.a.1.h.1	Research hydrologic features or processes.	
4.A.1.a.1.h.2	Research geological features or processes.	
4.A.1.a.1.h.3	Conduct climatological research.	
4.A.1.a.1.i	Research organizational behavior, processes, or performance.	
4.A.1.a.1.i.1	Conduct surveys in organizations.	
4.A.1.a.1.i.2	Research industrial processes or operations.	
4.A.1.a.1.i.3	Conduct scientific research of organizational behavior or processes.	
4.A.1.a.1.j	Investigate the environmental impact of industrial or development activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.j.1	Research impacts of environmental conservation initiatives.	
4.A.1.a.1.j.2	Research issues related to the environment or sustainable business practices.	
4.A.1.a.1.j.3	Investigate the environmental impact of projects.	
4.A.1.a.1.j.4	Monitor environmental impacts of production or development activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.j.5	Research environmental impact of industrial or development activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.j.6	Identify environmental concerns.	
4.A.1.a.1.j.7	Evaluate environmental impact of operational or development activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.k	Gather information for news stories.	
4.A.1.a.1.k.1	Gather information for news stories.	
4.A.1.a.1.l	Collect information about patients or clients.	
4.A.1.a.1.l.1	Gather medical information from patient histories.	
4.A.1.a.1.l.2	Collect medical information from patients, family members, or other medical professionals.	
4.A.1.a.1.l.3	Collect information from people through observation, interviews, or surveys.	
4.A.1.a.1.l.4	Collect information about clients.	
4.A.1.a.1.m	Research agricultural processes or practices.	
4.A.1.a.1.m.1	Research livestock management methods.	
4.A.1.a.1.m.2	Research crop management methods.	
4.A.1.a.1.m.3	Research sustainable agricultural processes or practices.	
4.A.1.a.1.n	Collect data about consumer needs or opinions.	
4.A.1.a.1.n.1	Conduct market research.	
4.A.1.a.1.n.2	Gather customer or product information to determine customer needs.	
4.A.1.a.1.n.3	Obtain personal or financial information about customers or applicants.	
4.A.1.a.1.n.4	Conduct opinion surveys or needs assessments.	
4.A.1.a.1.n.5	Collect data about customer needs.	
4.A.1.a.1.o	Investigate individuals' background, behavior, or activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.o.1	Observe individuals' activities to gather information or compile evidence.	
4.A.1.a.1.o.2	Investigate personal characteristics or activities of individuals.	
4.A.1.a.1.p	Research biological or ecological phenomena.	
4.A.1.a.1.p.1	Research genetic characteristics or expression.	
4.A.1.a.1.p.2	Research diseases or parasites.	
4.A.1.a.1.p.3	Conduct research of processes in natural or industrial ecosystems.	
4.A.1.a.1.p.4	Research microbiological or chemical processes or structures.	
4.A.1.a.1.p.5	Classify organisms based on their characteristics or behavior.	
4.A.1.a.1.p.6	Examine characteristics or behavior of living organisms.	
4.A.1.a.1.q	Obtain formal documentation or authorization.	
4.A.1.a.1.q.1	Obtain documentation to authorize activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.q.2	Obtain copyrights or other legal permissions.	
4.A.1.a.1.q.3	Obtain written authorization to perform activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.r	Research historical or social issues.	
4.A.1.a.1.r.1	Conduct anthropological or archaeological research.	
4.A.1.a.1.r.2	Conduct historical research.	
4.A.1.a.1.r.3	Conduct research on social issues.	
4.A.1.a.1.s	Research healthcare issues.	
4.A.1.a.1.s.1	Conduct research to increase knowledge about medical issues.	
4.A.1.a.1.s.2	Collect information about community health needs.	
4.A.1.a.1.t	Research technology designs or applications.	
4.A.1.a.1.t.1	Research engineering aspects of biological or chemical processes.	
4.A.1.a.1.t.2	Research engineering applications of emerging technologies.	
4.A.1.a.1.t.3	Research design or application of green technologies.	
4.A.1.a.1.t.4	Conduct research to gain information about products or processes.	
4.A.1.a.1.t.5	Research advanced engineering designs or applications.	
4.A.1.a.1.t.6	Research energy production, use, or conservation.	
4.A.1.a.1.t.7	Research human performance or health factors related to engineering or design activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.t.8	Research new technologies.	
4.A.1.a.1.t.9	Research product safety.	
4.A.1.a.1.t.10	Research methods to improve food products.	
4.A.1.a.1.u	Investigate incidents or accidents.	
4.A.1.a.1.u.1	Investigate accidents to determine causes.	
4.A.1.a.1.u.2	Examine debris to obtain information about causes of fires.	
4.A.1.a.1.u.3	Investigate transportation incidents, violations, or complaints.	
4.A.1.a.1.u.4	Investigate industrial or transportation accidents.	
4.A.1.a.1.v	Investigate organizational or operational problems.	
4.A.1.a.1.v.1	Investigate system, equipment, or product failures.	
4.A.1.a.1.v.2	Investigate work related complaints to determine corrective actions.	
4.A.1.a.1.v.3	Investigate safety of work environment.	
4.A.1.a.1.w	Interview people to obtain information.	
4.A.1.a.1.w.1	Interview employees, customers, or others to collect information.	
4.A.1.a.1.w.2	Interview others for news or entertainment purposes.	
4.A.1.a.1.w.3	Interview clients to gather financial information.	
4.A.1.a.1.w.4	Interview people to obtain information about actions or status of individuals.	
4.A.1.a.1.w.5	Interview people to gather information about criminal activities.	
4.A.1.a.1.w.6	Interview patients to gather medical information.	
4.A.1.a.1.w.7	Interview claimants to get information related to legal proceedings.	
4.A.1.a.1.w.8	Interview clients to gather information about their backgrounds, needs, or progress.	
4.A.1.a.1.w.9	Interview witnesses, suspects, or claimants.	
4.A.1.a.2	Monitoring Processes, Materials, or Surroundings	Monitoring and reviewing information from materials, events, or the environment, to detect or assess problems.
4.A.1.a.2.a	Monitor equipment operation.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.1	Monitor broadcasting operations to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.2	Monitor medical equipment to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.3	Monitor engine operation or functioning.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.4	Monitor lubrication of equipment or workpieces.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.5	Monitor equipment operation to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.6	Observe equipment in operation to detect potential problems.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.7	Watch operating equipment to detect malfunctions.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.8	Monitor green energy equipment, systems, or facilities.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.9	Assess equipment functioning.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.10	Monitor equipment operation to ensure that products are not flawed.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.11	Monitor instruments to ensure proper production conditions.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.12	Monitor video displays of medical equipment to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.13	Monitor equipment gauges or displays to ensure proper operation.	
4.A.1.a.2.a.14	Monitor equipment fluid levels.	
4.A.1.a.2.b	Monitor operations to ensure adequate performance.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.1	Monitor industrial energy consumption or management.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.2	Monitor facilities or operational systems.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.3	Monitor operational quality or safety.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.4	Monitor extraction operations.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.5	Monitor organizational procedures to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.6	Monitor construction operations.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.7	Monitor vehicle movement or location.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.8	Monitor recreational facility operations.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.9	Inspect operational processes.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.10	Track goods or materials.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.11	Monitor food services operations to ensure procedures are followed.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.12	Monitor loading processes to ensure they are performed properly.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.13	Monitor biofuel production operations.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.14	Inspect cargo to ensure it is properly loaded or secured.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.15	Monitor the productivity or efficiency of industrial operations.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.16	Monitor operational procedures in technical environments to ensure conformance to standards.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.17	Inspect operations of green energy facilities.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.18	Monitor conditions at energy-producing landfills.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.19	Monitor the handling of hazardous materials or medical wastes.	
4.A.1.a.2.b.20	Monitor organizational processes.	
4.A.1.a.2.c	Monitor financial data or activities.	
4.A.1.a.2.c.1	Monitor financial information.	
4.A.1.a.2.c.2	Monitor financial activities.	
4.A.1.a.2.c.3	Monitor sales activities.	
4.A.1.a.2.c.4	Monitor flow of cash or other resources.	
4.A.1.a.2.c.5	Monitor financial indicators.	
4.A.1.a.2.c.6	Monitor business indicators.	
4.A.1.a.2.d	Monitor traffic conditions.	
4.A.1.a.2.d.1	Monitor traffic signals.	
4.A.1.a.2.d.2	Time vehicle speed or traffic-control equipment operation.	
4.A.1.a.2.e	Monitor health conditions of humans or animals.	
4.A.1.a.2.e.1	Monitor patient progress or responses to treatments.	
4.A.1.a.2.e.2	Monitor clients to evaluate treatment progress.	
4.A.1.a.2.e.3	Monitor patients following surgeries or other treatments.	
4.A.1.a.2.e.4	Monitor animal behavior or condition.	
4.A.1.a.2.e.5	Monitor health or behavior of people or animals.	
4.A.1.a.2.e.6	Monitor patients to detect health problems.	
4.A.1.a.2.e.7	Monitor patient conditions during treatments, procedures, or activities.	
4.A.1.a.2.e.8	Monitor nutrition related activities of individuals or groups.	
4.A.1.a.2.f	Monitor individual behavior or performance.	
4.A.1.a.2.f.1	Monitor performance of organizational members or partners.	
4.A.1.a.2.f.2	Monitor patron activities to identify problems or potential problems.	
4.A.1.a.2.f.3	Monitor student performance.	
4.A.1.a.2.f.4	Supervise school or student activities.	
4.A.1.a.2.f.5	Enforce rules or policies governing student behavior.	
4.A.1.a.2.f.6	Monitor activities of individuals to ensure safety or compliance with rules.	
4.A.1.a.2.f.7	Monitor student behavior, social development, or health.	
4.A.1.a.2.g	Monitor safety or security of work areas, facilities, or properties.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.1	Monitor environment to ensure safety.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.2	Monitor access or flow of people to prevent problems.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.3	Monitor building premises to ensure occupant or visitor safety.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.4	Locate suspicious objects or vehicles.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.5	Patrol properties to maintain safety.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.6	Monitor work areas to provide security.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.7	Maintain surveillance of individuals or establishments.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.8	Monitor alarm systems.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.9	Monitor work areas or procedures to ensure compliance with safety procedures.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.10	Locate fires or fire danger areas.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.11	Monitor surroundings to detect potential hazards.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.12	Patrol natural areas to ensure safety or enforce regulations.	
4.A.1.a.2.g.13	Monitor work environment to ensure safety or adherence to specifications.	
4.A.1.a.2.h	Monitor external affairs, trends, or events.	
4.A.1.a.2.h.1	Monitor market conditions or trends.	
4.A.1.a.2.h.2	Monitor current trends.	
4.A.1.a.2.h.3	Monitor external affairs or events affecting business operations.	
4.A.1.a.2.h.4	Monitor external factors impacting operations.	
4.A.1.a.2.i	Monitor environmental conditions.	
4.A.1.a.2.i.1	Inspect landscaping to determine treatment needs.	
4.A.1.a.2.i.2	Monitor environmental conditions to detect hazards.	
4.A.1.a.2.i.3	Measure environmental characteristics.	
4.A.1.a.2.i.4	Monitor activities affecting environmental quality.	
4.A.1.a.2.i.5	Assess characteristics of fires.	
4.A.1.a.2.i.6	Inspect condition of natural environments.	
4.A.1.a.2.j	Monitor operation of computer or information technologies.	
4.A.1.a.2.j.1	Monitor the security of digital information.	
4.A.1.a.2.j.2	Monitor the performance of computer networks.	
4.A.1.a.2.j.3	Monitor computer system performance to ensure proper operation.	
4.A.1.a.2.k	Monitor operations to ensure compliance with regulations or standards.	
4.A.1.a.2.k.1	Identify actions needed to bring properties or facilities into compliance with regulations.	
4.A.1.a.2.k.2	Inspect products or operations to ensure that standards are met.	
4.A.1.a.2.k.3	Monitor operations to ensure compliance with safety or security policies or regulations.	
4.A.1.a.2.k.4	Monitor organizational compliance with regulations.	
4.A.1.a.2.k.5	Verify that medical activities or operations meet standards.	
4.A.1.a.2.k.6	Monitor processes for compliance with standards.	
4.A.1.a.2.k.7	Evaluate personnel practices to ensure adherence to regulations.	
4.A.1.a.2.k.8	Monitor operational activities to ensure compliance with regulations or standard operating procedures.	
4.A.1.a.2.k.9	Evaluate construction projects to determine compliance with external standards or regulations.	
4.A.1.a.2.k.10	Determine operational compliance with regulations or standards.	
4.A.1.a.2.k.11	Monitor medical facility activities to ensure adherence to standards or regulations.	
4.A.1.b	Identifying and Evaluating Job-Relevant Information	How is information interpreted to perform this job?
4.A.1.b.1	Identifying Objects, Actions, and Events	Identifying information by categorizing, estimating, recognizing differences or similarities, and detecting changes in circumstances or events.
4.A.1.b.1.a	Mark materials or objects for identification.	
4.A.1.b.1.a.1	Apply identification labels or tags.	
4.A.1.b.1.a.2	Mark agricultural or forestry products for identification.	
4.A.1.b.1.a.3	Mark materials or objects for identification.	
4.A.1.b.1.a.4	Mark products, workpieces, or equipment with identifying information.	
4.A.1.b.1.a.5	Label production materials.	
4.A.1.b.1.a.6	Attach identification information to products, items or containers.	
4.A.1.b.1.b	Identify business or organizational opportunities.	
4.A.1.b.1.b.1	Identify opportunities for green initiatives.	
4.A.1.b.1.b.2	Identify potential customers.	
4.A.1.b.1.b.3	Identify investment opportunities or strategies.	
4.A.1.b.1.b.4	Identify strategic business investment opportunities.	
4.A.1.b.1.b.5	Identify new applications for existing technologies.	
4.A.1.b.1.b.6	Identify opportunities to improve operational efficiency.	
4.A.1.b.1.b.7	Identify sustainable business practices.	
4.A.1.b.1.b.8	Identify job or employment opportunities.	
4.A.1.b.2	Inspecting Equipment, Structures, or Materials	Inspecting equipment, structures, or materials to identify the cause of errors or other problems or defects.
4.A.1.b.2.a	Administer diagnostic tests to assess patient health.	
4.A.1.b.2.a.1	Test patient heart or lung functioning.	
4.A.1.b.2.a.2	Administer screening tests to determine abilities or treatment needs.	
4.A.1.b.2.a.3	Test patient hearing.	
4.A.1.b.2.a.4	Test patient vision.	
4.A.1.b.2.a.5	Conduct diagnostic tests to determine patient health.	
4.A.1.b.2.a.6	Administer drug screening tests.	
4.A.1.b.2.a.7	Test patient nervous system functioning.	
4.A.1.b.2.a.8	Test biological specimens to gather information about patient conditions.	
4.A.1.b.2.b	Evaluate green technologies or processes.	
4.A.1.b.2.b.1	Test green technologies or processes.	
4.A.1.b.2.b.2	Test green technology installations to verify performance.	
4.A.1.b.2.c	Test characteristics of materials or products.	
4.A.1.b.2.c.1	Test materials, solutions, or samples.	
4.A.1.b.2.c.2	Test products for functionality or quality.	
4.A.1.b.2.c.3	Analyze test results.	
4.A.1.b.2.c.4	Test characteristics of materials or structures.	
4.A.1.b.2.c.5	Test chemical or physical characteristics of materials or products.	
4.A.1.b.2.c.6	Test fluids to identify contamination or other problems.	
4.A.1.b.2.c.7	Test quality of materials or finished products.	
4.A.1.b.2.d	Inspect vehicles.	
4.A.1.b.2.d.1	Inspect motor vehicles.	
4.A.1.b.2.d.2	Inspect mechanical components of vehicles to identify problems.	
4.A.1.b.2.d.3	Inspect vehicles to determine overall condition.	
4.A.1.b.2.d.4	Inspect locomotives or other railroad equipment.	
4.A.1.b.2.d.5	Inspect aircraft or aircraft components.	
4.A.1.b.2.d.6	Inspect structural components of vehicles to identify problems.	
4.A.1.b.2.e	Inspect facilities or equipment.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.1	Inspect work sites to determine condition or necessary repairs.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.2	Inspect work sites to identify potential environmental or safety hazards.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.3	Inspect facilities, equipment or supplies to ensure conformance to standards.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.4	Inspect cargo areas for cleanliness or condition.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.5	Inspect work environments to ensure safety.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.6	Monitor cargo area conditions.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.7	Inspect facilities.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.8	Inspect facilities or equipment to ensure specifications are met.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.9	Inspect areas for compliance with sanitation standards.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.10	Inspect facilities to ensure compliance with fire regulations.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.11	Inspect facilities to ensure compliance with safety, quality, or service standards.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.12	Inspect facilities or sites to determine if they meet specifications or standards.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.13	Inspect facilities to ensure compliance with security or safety regulations.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.14	Inspect facilities for cleanliness.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.15	Inspect condition or functioning of facilities or equipment.	
4.A.1.b.2.e.16	Inspect buildings or grounds to determine condition.	
4.A.1.b.2.f	Inspect completed work or finished products.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.1	Verify alignment of structures or equipment.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.2	Inspect timing devices.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.3	Inspect finishes of workpieces or finished products.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.4	Count finished products or workpieces.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.5	Inspect metal, plastic, or composite products.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.6	Inspect work to ensure standards are met.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.7	Inspect textile products.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.8	Inspect finished products to locate flaws.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.9	Evaluate projects to determine compliance with technical specifications.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.10	Inspect medical or dental assistive devices.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.11	Inspect items for damage or defects.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.12	Check quality of foods or supplies.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.13	Inspect food products.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.14	Inspect sets or exhibits.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.15	Inspect completed work to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.16	Inspected printed materials or other images to verify quality.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.17	Inspect completed work to ensure proper installation.	
4.A.1.b.2.f.18	Inspect installed components or assemblies.	
4.A.1.b.2.g	Inspect commercial, industrial, or production systems or equipment.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.1	Inspect equipment or tools to be used in construction or excavation.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.2	Inspect safety equipment to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.3	Inspect systems to determine if they are operating properly.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.4	Inspect equipment or facilities to determine condition or maintenance needs.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.5	Inspect telecommunications equipment to identify problems.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.6	Inspect equipment to locate or identify electrical problems.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.7	Inspect material-moving equipment to detect problems.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.8	Inspect electrical or electronic systems for defects.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.9	Conduct validation tests of equipment or processes.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.10	Inspect gas systems or components to identify leaks or other potential hazards.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.11	Inspect equipment or systems.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.12	Inspect plumbing systems or fixtures.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.13	Locate equipment or materials in need of repair or replacement.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.14	Inspect equipment to ensure safety or proper functioning.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.15	Inspect production equipment.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.16	Inspect industrial or commercial equipment to ensure proper operation.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.17	Inspect sustainable energy production facilities or equipment.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.18	Inspect equipment to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.19	Inspect communications or broadcasting equipment.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.20	Inspect mechanical equipment to locate damage, defects, or wear.	
4.A.1.b.2.g.21	Examine medical instruments or equipment to ensure proper operation.	
4.A.1.b.2.h	Test performance of computer or information systems.	
4.A.1.b.2.h.1	Test computer hardware performance.	
4.A.1.b.2.h.2	Test computer system operations to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.b.2.h.3	Test software performance.	
4.A.1.b.2.i	Examine people or animals to assess health conditions or physical characteristics.	
4.A.1.b.2.i.1	Check physical condition of people or animals.	
4.A.1.b.2.i.2	Examine animals to detect illness, injury or other problems.	
4.A.1.b.2.i.3	Examine patients to assess general physical condition.	
4.A.1.b.2.i.4	Examine mouth, teeth, gums, or related facial structures.	
4.A.1.b.2.i.5	Measure the physical or physiological attributes of patients.	
4.A.1.b.2.j	Inspect characteristics or conditions of materials or products.	
4.A.1.b.2.j.1	Compare physical characteristics of materials or products to specifications or standards.	
4.A.1.b.2.j.2	Inspect lumber or raw woodstock.	
4.A.1.b.2.j.3	Inspect shipments to ensure correct order fulfillment.	
4.A.1.b.2.j.4	Inspect garments for defects, damage, or stains.	
4.A.1.b.2.j.5	Inspect cargo to identify potential hazards.	
4.A.1.b.2.j.6	Evaluate characteristics of archival or historical objects.	
4.A.1.b.2.j.7	Examine condition of property or products.	
4.A.1.b.2.j.8	Inspect materials or equipment to determine need for repair or replacement.	
4.A.1.b.2.j.9	Examine physical characteristics of gemstones or precious metals.	
4.A.1.b.2.j.10	Examine physical characteristics of natural stone or stone products.	
4.A.1.b.2.k	Test sites or materials for environmental hazards.	
4.A.1.b.2.k.1	Test air quality at work sites.	
4.A.1.b.2.k.2	Test facilities for environmental hazards.	
4.A.1.b.2.l	Test performance of equipment or systems.	
4.A.1.b.2.l.1	Test communications equipment to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.b.2.l.2	Test performance of electrical, electronic, mechanical, or integrated systems or equipment.	
4.A.1.b.2.l.3	Test electrical equipment or systems to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.b.2.l.4	Test performance of aircraft equipment.	
4.A.1.b.2.l.5	Test mechanical equipment to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.b.2.l.6	Measure equipment outputs.	
4.A.1.b.2.l.7	Test mechanical systems to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.1.b.2.l.8	Conduct test runs of production equipment.	
4.A.1.b.2.l.9	Test electrical circuits or components for proper functioning.	
4.A.1.b.3	Estimating the Quantifiable Characteristics of Products, Events, or Information	Estimating sizes, distances, and quantities; or determining time, costs, resources, or materials needed to perform a work activity.
4.A.1.b.3.a	Measure physical characteristics of materials, products, or equipment.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.1	Measure materials to mark reference points, cutting lines, or other indicators.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.2	Calculate dimensions of workpieces, products, or equipment.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.3	Measure physical or chemical properties of materials or objects.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.4	Measure product or material dimensions.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.5	Measure radiation levels.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.6	Measure distances or dimensions.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.7	Measure physical characteristics of forestry or agricultural products.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.8	Calculate weights, volumes or other characteristics of materials.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.9	Measure ingredients.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.10	Measure ingredients or substances to be used in production processes.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.11	Weigh finished products.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.12	Measure dimensions of completed products or workpieces to verify conformance to specifications.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.13	Weigh parcels to determine shipping costs.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.14	Weigh materials to ensure compliance with specifications.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.15	Measure stock or liquid levels in sustainable fuel production systems.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.16	Measure materials or objects for installation or assembly.	
4.A.1.b.3.a.17	Measure the level or depth of water or other liquids.	
4.A.1.b.3.b	Estimate project development or operational costs.	
4.A.1.b.3.b.1	Estimate time or monetary resources needed to complete projects.	
4.A.1.b.3.b.2	Estimate construction project costs.	
4.A.1.b.3.b.3	Estimate maintenance service requirements or costs.	
4.A.1.b.3.b.4	Estimate operational costs.	
4.A.1.b.3.b.5	Estimate green project costs.	
4.A.1.b.3.b.6	Estimate costs for projects or productions.	
4.A.1.b.3.b.7	Estimate costs for labor or materials.	
4.A.1.b.3.c	Calculate financial data.	
4.A.1.b.3.c.1	Calculate financial data.	
4.A.1.b.3.c.2	Compute gaming wins and losses.	
4.A.1.b.3.c.3	Calculate tax information.	
4.A.1.b.3.c.4	Compute debt repayment schedules.	
4.A.1.b.3.d	Assess characteristics of land or property.	
4.A.1.b.3.d.1	Survey land or properties.	
4.A.1.b.3.d.2	Measure work site dimensions.	
4.A.1.b.3.d.3	Calculate geographic positions from survey data.	
4.A.1.b.3.d.4	Survey land or bodies of water to measure or determine features.	
4.A.1.b.3.d.5	Assess locations for potential green technology installations.	
4.A.1.b.3.e	Take physical measurements of patients or clients.	
4.A.1.b.3.e.1	Measure clients to ensure proper product fit.	
4.A.2	Mental Processes	What processing, planning, problem-solving, decision-making, and innovating activities are performed with job-relevant information?
4.A.2.a	Information and Data Processing	How is information processed to perform this job?
4.A.2.a.1	Judging the Qualities of Objects, Services, or People	Assessing the value, importance, or quality of things or people.
4.A.2.a.1.a	Assess living, work, or social needs or status of individuals or communities.	
4.A.2.a.1.a.1	Evaluate potential problems in home or work environments of clients.	
4.A.2.a.1.a.2	Assess patient work, living, or social environments.	
4.A.2.a.1.a.3	Evaluate characteristics of individuals to determine needs or eligibility.	
4.A.2.a.1.a.4	Assess individual or community needs for educational or social services.	
4.A.2.a.1.b	Evaluate programs, practices, or processes.	
4.A.2.a.1.b.1	Evaluate program effectiveness.	
4.A.2.a.1.b.2	Evaluate the effectiveness of counseling or educational programs.	
4.A.2.a.1.b.3	Measure effectiveness of business strategies or practices.	
4.A.2.a.1.b.4	Evaluate effectiveness of personnel policies or practices.	
4.A.2.a.1.b.5	Evaluate effectiveness of educational programs.	
4.A.2.a.1.b.6	Evaluate training programs, instructors, or materials.	
4.A.2.a.1.b.7	Evaluate civic projects or public policies.	
4.A.2.a.1.c	Assess student capabilities, needs, or performance.	
4.A.2.a.1.c.1	Assess educational needs of students.	
4.A.2.a.1.c.2	Administer tests to assess educational needs or progress.	
4.A.2.a.1.c.3	Prepare tests.	
4.A.2.a.1.c.4	Evaluate student work.	
4.A.2.a.1.d	Evaluate personnel capabilities or performance.	
4.A.2.a.1.d.1	Evaluate performance of educational staff.	
4.A.2.a.1.d.2	Evaluate current or prospective maintenance employees.	
4.A.2.a.1.d.3	Evaluate skills of athletes or performers.	
4.A.2.a.1.d.4	Evaluate employee performance.	
4.A.2.a.1.d.5	Evaluate capabilities or training needs.	
4.A.2.a.1.d.6	Evaluate performance of applicants, trainees, or employees.	
4.A.2.a.1.e	Evaluate production inputs or outputs.	
4.A.2.a.1.e.1	Evaluate log quality.	
4.A.2.a.1.e.2	Evaluate quality of plants or crops.	
4.A.2.a.1.e.3	Evaluate quality of materials or products.	
4.A.2.a.1.e.4	Evaluate quality of food ingredients or prepared foods.	
4.A.2.a.1.f	Evaluate patient or client condition or treatment options.	
4.A.2.a.1.f.1	Assess physical conditions of patients to aid in diagnosis or treatment.	
4.A.2.a.1.f.2	Evaluate patient functioning, capabilities, or health.	
4.A.2.a.1.f.3	Evaluate patient outcomes to determine effectiveness of treatments.	
4.A.2.a.1.f.4	Evaluate treatment options to guide medical decisions.	
4.A.2.a.1.f.5	Assess skin or hair conditions.	
4.A.2.a.1.g	Evaluate the characteristics, usefulness, or performance of products or technologies.	
4.A.2.a.1.g.1	Assess the cost effectiveness of products, projects, or services.	
4.A.2.a.1.g.2	Evaluate new technologies or methods.	
4.A.2.a.1.g.3	Evaluate potential of products, technologies, or resources.	
4.A.2.a.1.g.4	Evaluate the characteristics of green technologies.	
4.A.2.a.1.g.5	Assess product or process usefulness.	
4.A.2.a.1.g.6	Assess database performance.	
4.A.2.a.1.g.7	Evaluate characteristics of equipment or systems.	
4.A.2.a.1.g.8	Evaluate utility of software or hardware technologies.	
4.A.2.a.1.g.9	Evaluate characteristics of products.	
4.A.2.a.1.h	Evaluate scholarly work.	
4.A.2.a.1.h.1	Evaluate scholarly materials.	
4.A.2.a.1.i	Evaluate condition of financial assets, property, or other resources.	
4.A.2.a.1.i.1	Evaluate condition of properties.	
4.A.2.a.1.i.2	Assess financial status of clients.	
4.A.2.a.1.i.3	Appraise property values.	
4.A.2.a.1.j	Evaluate project feasibility.	
4.A.2.a.1.j.1	Evaluate project designs to determine adequacy or feasibility.	
4.A.2.a.1.j.2	Analyze data to determine project feasibility.	
4.A.2.a.2	Processing Information	Compiling, coding, categorizing, calculating, tabulating, auditing, or verifying information or data.
4.A.2.a.2.a	Evaluate the quality or accuracy of data.	
4.A.2.a.2.a.1	Verify accuracy of records.	
4.A.2.a.2.a.2	Verify information or specifications.	
4.A.2.a.2.a.3	Verify customer credit information.	
4.A.2.a.2.a.4	Review accuracy of sales or other transactions.	
4.A.2.a.2.a.5	Verify accuracy of financial information.	
4.A.2.a.2.a.6	Evaluate data quality.	
4.A.2.a.2.a.7	Verify accuracy of data.	
4.A.2.a.2.a.8	Check data for recording errors.	
4.A.2.a.2.a.9	Verify accuracy of financial or transactional data.	
4.A.2.a.2.a.10	Verify mathematical calculations.	
4.A.2.a.2.a.11	Check quality of diagnostic images.	
4.A.2.a.2.b	Sort materials or products.	
4.A.2.a.2.b.1	Sort mail.	
4.A.2.a.2.b.2	Sort materials or objects for processing or transport.	
4.A.2.a.2.b.3	Sort recyclable materials.	
4.A.2.a.2.b.4	Sort forestry or agricultural materials.	
4.A.2.a.2.b.5	Sort materials or products for processing, storing, shipping, or grading.	
4.A.2.a.2.b.6	Sort materials or products.	
4.A.2.a.2.c	Compile records, documentation, or other data.	
4.A.2.a.2.c.1	Compile operational data.	
4.A.2.a.2.c.2	Compile technical information or documentation.	
4.A.2.a.2.c.3	Compile data or documentation.	
4.A.2.a.2.c.4	Compile specialized bibliographies or lists of materials.	
4.A.2.a.2.c.5	Compile environmental or climatological data.	
4.A.2.a.2.c.6	Compile geographic or related data.	
4.A.2.a.2.d	Reconcile financial data.	
4.A.2.a.2.d.1	Reconcile records of sales or other financial transactions.	
4.A.2.a.2.d.2	Balance receipts.	
4.A.2.a.2.d.3	Prepare cash for deposit or disbursement.	
4.A.2.a.2.e	Verify personal information.	
4.A.2.a.2.e.1	Examine personal documentation to ensure that it is valid.	
4.A.2.a.2.e.2	Verify employee information.	
4.A.2.a.2.e.3	Verify application data to determine program eligibility.	
4.A.2.a.2.e.4	Verify accuracy of patient information.	
4.A.2.a.2.e.5	Verify patron or staff credentials.	
4.A.2.a.3	Evaluating Information to Determine Compliance with Standards	Using relevant information and individual judgment to determine whether events or processes comply with laws, regulations, or standards.
4.A.2.a.3.a	Examine materials or documentation for accuracy or compliance.	
4.A.2.a.3.a.1	Examine marketing materials to ensure compliance with policies or regulations.	
4.A.2.a.3.a.2	Examine documents to verify adherence to requirements.	
4.A.2.a.3.a.3	Examine product information to ensure compliance with regulations.	
4.A.2.a.3.a.4	Review documents or materials for compliance with policies or regulations.	
4.A.2.a.3.a.5	Review license or permit applications.	
4.A.2.a.3.a.6	Verify shipping documentation.	
4.A.2.a.3.a.7	Review environmental permits, plans, or reports.	
4.A.2.a.3.a.8	Proofread documents, records, or other files to ensure accuracy.	
4.A.2.a.3.a.9	Review plans or proposals for environmental conservation.	
4.A.2.a.3.b	Assess compliance with environmental standards or regulations.	
4.A.2.a.3.b.1	Assess compliance with environmental laws.	
4.A.2.a.3.b.2	Evaluate green operations or programs for compliance with standards or regulations.	
4.A.2.a.3.b.3	Conduct environmental audits.	
4.A.2.a.3.b.4	Evaluate plans or specifications to determine technological or environmental implications.	
4.A.2.a.3.c	Examine financial activities, operations, or systems.	
4.A.2.a.3.c.1	Conduct financial or regulatory audits.	
4.A.2.a.3.c.2	Examine financial records.	
4.A.2.a.3.c.3	Examine financial records or processes.	
4.A.2.a.3.c.4	Review customer insurance information.	
4.A.2.a.3.c.5	Examine financial records to ensure compliance with policies or regulations.	
4.A.2.a.3.d	Follow standard healthcare safety procedures to protect patient and staff members.	
4.A.2.a.3.d.1	Protect patients or staff members using safety equipment.	
4.A.2.a.3.d.2	Follow protocols or regulations for healthcare activities.	
4.A.2.a.4	Analyzing Data or Information	Identifying the underlying principles, reasons, or facts of information by breaking down information or data into separate parts.
4.A.2.a.4.a	Analyze environmental or geospatial data.	
4.A.2.a.4.a.1	Locate natural resources using geospatial or other environmental data.	
4.A.2.a.4.a.2	Determine geographic coordinates.	
4.A.2.a.4.a.3	Analyze geological samples.	
4.A.2.a.4.a.4	Analyze environmental data.	
4.A.2.a.4.a.5	Analyze geological or geographical data.	
4.A.2.a.4.a.6	Analyze Geographic Information Systems (GIS) data for use in green applications.	
4.A.2.a.4.a.7	Analyze physical, survey, or geographic data.	
4.A.2.a.4.b	Analyze market or industry conditions.	
4.A.2.a.4.b.1	Estimate demand for products or services.	
4.A.2.a.4.b.2	Analyze industry trends.	
4.A.2.a.4.b.3	Forecast economic, political, or social trends.	
4.A.2.a.4.b.4	Analyze market conditions or trends.	
4.A.2.a.4.b.5	Analyze website or related online data to track trends or usage.	
4.A.2.a.4.b.6	Analyze market or customer related data.	
4.A.2.a.4.b.7	Analyze consumer trends.	
4.A.2.a.4.b.8	Analyze market research data.	
4.A.2.a.4.c	Analyze business or financial risks.	
4.A.2.a.4.c.1	Assess risks to business operations.	
4.A.2.a.4.c.2	Analyze risks related to investments in green technology.	
4.A.2.a.4.c.3	Analyze risks to minimize losses or damages.	
4.A.2.a.4.d	Analyze scientific or applied data using mathematical principles.	
4.A.2.a.4.d.1	Apply mathematical principles or statistical approaches to solve problems in scientific or applied fields.	
4.A.2.a.4.d.2	Analyze data to identify trends or relationships among variables.	
4.A.2.a.4.e	Evaluate designs, specifications, or other technical data.	
4.A.2.a.4.e.1	Evaluate technical data to determine effect on designs or plans.	
4.A.2.a.4.e.2	Analyze design requirements for computer or electronics systems.	
4.A.2.a.4.e.3	Evaluate designs or specifications to ensure quality.	
4.A.2.a.4.e.4	Analyze green technology design requirements.	
4.A.2.a.4.e.5	Analyze project data to determine specifications or requirements.	
4.A.2.a.4.e.6	Analyze design or requirements information for mechanical equipment or systems.	
4.A.2.a.4.e.7	Evaluate environmental or sustainability projects.	
4.A.2.a.4.e.8	Analyze costs and benefits of proposed designs or projects.	
4.A.2.a.4.f	Analyze health or medical data.	
4.A.2.a.4.f.1	Analyze health-related data.	
4.A.2.a.4.f.2	Analyze patient data to determine patient needs or treatment goals.	
4.A.2.a.4.f.3	Analyze test data or images to inform diagnosis or treatment.	
4.A.2.a.4.f.4	Analyze medical data to determine cause of death.	
4.A.2.a.4.f.5	Calculate numerical data for medical activities.	
4.A.2.a.4.f.6	Analyze quantitative data to determine effectiveness of treatments or therapies.	
4.A.2.a.4.g	Analyze data to improve operations.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.1	Calculate data to inform organizational operations.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.2	Analyze operational or research data.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.3	Analyze operational data to evaluate operations, processes or products.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.4	Evaluate energy production data.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.5	Interpret research or operational data.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.6	Model operational processes.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.7	Analyze logistics processes.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.8	Analyze forecasting data to improve business decisions.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.9	Analyze data to assess operational or project effectiveness.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.10	Analyze jobs using observation, survey, or interview techniques.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.11	Analyze data to inform personnel decisions.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.12	Analyze data to inform operational decisions or activities.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.13	Evaluate logistics methods to reduce environmental impact.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.14	Analyze data to identify or resolve operational problems.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.15	Analyze shipping information to make routing decisions.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.16	Analyze traffic data.	
4.A.2.a.4.g.17	Analyze energy usage data.	
4.A.2.a.4.h	Research laws, precedents, or other legal data.	
4.A.2.a.4.h.1	Identify implications for cases from legal precedents or other legal information.	
4.A.2.a.4.i	Assess characteristics or impacts of regulations or policies.	
4.A.2.a.4.i.1	Appraise environmental impact of regulations or policies.	
4.A.2.a.4.i.2	Analyze environmental regulations to ensure organizational compliance.	
4.A.2.a.4.i.3	Analyze impact of legal or regulatory changes.	
4.A.2.a.4.i.4	Evaluate applicable laws and regulations to determine impact on organizational activities.	
4.A.2.a.4.j	Analyze biological or chemical substances or related data.	
4.A.2.a.4.j.1	Analyze laboratory specimens to detect abnormalities or other problems.	
4.A.2.a.4.j.2	Analyze forensic evidence to solve crimes.	
4.A.2.a.4.j.3	Analyze crime scene evidence.	
4.A.2.a.4.j.4	Analyze laboratory findings.	
4.A.2.a.4.j.5	Analyze biological samples.	
4.A.2.a.4.j.6	Analyze chemical compounds or substances.	
4.A.2.a.4.k	Analyze business or financial data.	
4.A.2.a.4.k.1	Analyze budgetary or accounting data.	
4.A.2.a.4.k.2	Analyze financial information.	
4.A.2.a.4.k.3	Apply mathematical models of financial or business conditions.	
4.A.2.a.4.k.4	Analyze business or financial data.	
4.A.2.a.4.k.5	Analyze financial records to improve budgeting or planning.	
4.A.2.a.4.k.6	Analyze financial records or reports to determine state of operations.	
4.A.2.a.4.k.7	Analyze financial records to improve efficiency.	
4.A.2.a.4.l	Analyze performance of systems or equipment.	
4.A.2.a.4.l.1	Conduct quantitative failure analyses of operational data.	
4.A.2.a.4.l.2	Analyze security of systems, network, or data.	
4.A.2.a.4.l.3	Interpret design or operational test results.	
4.A.2.a.4.l.4	Analyze test or validation data.	
4.A.2.a.4.l.5	Analyze test or performance data to assess equipment operation.	
4.A.2.b	Reasoning and Decision Making	What decisions are made and problems solved in performing this job?
4.A.2.b.1	Making Decisions and Solving Problems	Analyzing information and evaluating results to choose the best solution and solve problems.
4.A.2.b.1.a	Determine values or prices of goods or services.	
4.A.2.b.1.a.1	Estimate costs of products, services, or materials.	
4.A.2.b.1.a.2	Determine the value of goods or services.	
4.A.2.b.1.a.3	Estimate costs or terms of sales.	
4.A.2.b.1.a.4	Determine prices for menu items.	
4.A.2.b.1.a.5	Calculate shipping costs.	
4.A.2.b.1.a.6	Estimate costs of goods or services.	
4.A.2.b.1.a.7	Calculate costs of goods or services.	
4.A.2.b.1.b	Diagnose system or equipment problems.	
4.A.2.b.1.b.1	Determine causes of operational problems or failures.	
4.A.2.b.1.b.2	Troubleshoot equipment or systems operation problems.	
4.A.2.b.1.b.3	Diagnose equipment malfunctions.	
4.A.2.b.1.c	Authorize business activities or transactions.	
4.A.2.b.1.c.1	Authorize construction activities.	
4.A.2.b.1.c.2	Authorize financial actions.	
4.A.2.b.1.c.3	Authorize payments to settle legal disputes.	
4.A.2.b.1.c.4	Approve expenditures.	
4.A.2.b.1.d	Determine operational methods or procedures.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.1	Determine metal or plastic production methods.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.2	Determine appropriate locations for operations or installations.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.3	Determine operational methods.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.4	Determine operational procedures.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.5	Determine methods to minimize environmental impact of activities.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.6	Determine food production methods.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.7	Determine forestry techniques or methods.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.8	Determine construction project layouts.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.9	Determine production equipment settings.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.10	Determine appropriate methods for data analysis.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.11	Determine protocols for medical procedures.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.12	Choose optimal transportation routes or speeds.	
4.A.2.b.1.d.13	Determine technical requirements of productions or projects.	
4.A.2.b.1.e	Make legal decisions.	
4.A.2.b.1.e.1	Make decisions in legal cases.	
4.A.2.b.1.e.2	Rule on admissibility of legal proceedings.	
4.A.2.b.1.f	Diagnose health conditions or disorders.	
4.A.2.b.1.f.1	Diagnose dental conditions.	
4.A.2.b.1.f.2	Diagnose medical conditions.	
4.A.2.b.1.f.3	Diagnose neural or psychological disorders.	
4.A.2.b.1.g	Edit written materials or documents.	
4.A.2.b.1.g.1	Edit written materials.	
4.A.2.b.1.g.2	Edit documents.	
4.A.2.b.1.h	Determine resource needs of projects or operations.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.1	Estimate technical or resource requirements for development or production projects.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.2	Identify information technology project resource requirements.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.3	Estimate labor requirements.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.4	Calculate specific material, equipment, or labor requirements for production.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.5	Determine resource needs.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.6	Estimate labor or resource requirements for forestry, fishing, or agricultural operations.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.7	Estimate supplies, ingredients, or staff requirements for food preparation activities.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.8	Estimate cost or material requirements.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.9	Estimate material requirements for production.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.10	Estimate time requirements for development or production projects.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.11	Determine types of equipment, tools, or materials needed for jobs.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.12	Estimate materials requirements for projects.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.13	Calculate requirements for equipment installation or repair projects.	
4.A.2.b.1.h.14	Estimate construction project labor requirements.	
4.A.2.b.1.i	Implement procedures or processes.	
4.A.2.b.1.i.1	Implement organizational process or policy changes.	
4.A.2.b.1.i.2	Implement transportation changes to reduce environmental impact.	
4.A.2.b.1.i.3	Apply new technologies to improve work processes.	
4.A.2.b.1.i.4	Implement advertising or marketing initiatives.	
4.A.2.b.1.i.5	Implement financial decisions.	
4.A.2.b.1.i.6	Implement design or process improvements.	
4.A.2.b.1.j	Select materials or equipment for operations or projects.	
4.A.2.b.1.j.1	Select tools, equipment, or technologies for use in operations or projects.	
4.A.2.b.1.j.2	Select project materials.	
4.A.2.b.1.j.3	Select materials or props.	
4.A.2.b.1.j.4	Select equipment, materials, or supplies for cleaning or maintenance activities.	
4.A.2.b.1.j.5	Select production input materials.	
4.A.2.b.1.j.6	Select production equipment according to product specifications.	
4.A.2.b.1.j.7	Select construction materials.	
4.A.2.b.1.j.8	Select medical equipment for addressing patient needs.	
4.A.2.b.1.j.9	Select construction equipment.	
4.A.2.b.1.j.10	Select educational materials or equipment.	
4.A.2.b.1.j.11	Select resources needed to accomplish tasks.	
4.A.2.b.1.k	Alter audio or video recordings.	
4.A.2.b.1.k.1	Edit audio or video recordings.	
4.A.2.b.1.k.2	Mix sound inputs.	
4.A.2.b.2	Thinking Creatively	Developing, designing, or creating new applications, ideas, relationships, systems, or products, including artistic contributions.
4.A.2.b.2.a	Develop patient or client care or treatment plans.	
4.A.2.b.2.a.1	Develop treatment plans for patients or clients.	
4.A.2.b.2.a.2	Develop medical treatment plans.	
4.A.2.b.2.a.3	Develop exercise or conditioning programs.	
4.A.2.b.2.a.4	Develop patient therapy programs.	
4.A.2.b.2.a.5	Modify treatment plans to accommodate client needs.	
4.A.2.b.2.a.6	Develop treatment plans that use non-medical therapies.	
4.A.2.b.2.a.7	Establish treatment goals.	
4.A.2.b.2.b	Design computer or information systems or applications.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.1	Develop software or computer applications.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.2	Develop computer or information systems.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.3	Design computer modeling or simulation programs.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.4	Develop computer or online applications.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.5	Design integrated computer systems.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.6	Develop software or applications for scientific or technical use.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.7	Modify software programs to improve performance.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.8	Design websites or web applications.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.9	Design video game features or details.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.10	Design software applications.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.11	Design healthcare-related software applications.	
4.A.2.b.2.b.12	Apply information technology to solve business or other applied problems.	
4.A.2.b.2.c	Develop business or marketing plans.	
4.A.2.b.2.c.1	Develop business or market strategies.	
4.A.2.b.2.c.2	Develop marketing plans or strategies for environmental initiatives.	
4.A.2.b.2.c.3	Develop marketing plans or strategies.	
4.A.2.b.2.c.4	Develop promotional strategies for religious organizations.	
4.A.2.b.2.c.5	Develop promotional strategies or plans.	
4.A.2.b.2.d	Develop recipes or menus.	
4.A.2.b.2.d.1	Create new recipes or food presentations.	
4.A.2.b.2.d.2	Plan menu options.	
4.A.2.b.2.e	Develop safety standards, policies, or procedures.	
4.A.2.b.2.e.1	Develop healthcare quality and safety procedures.	
4.A.2.b.2.e.2	Develop safety standards, policies, or procedures.	
4.A.2.b.2.e.3	Establish rules or policies governing student behavior.	
4.A.2.b.2.e.4	Develop fire safety or prevention programs or plans.	
4.A.2.b.2.f	Design databases.	
4.A.2.b.2.f.1	Develop database parameters or specifications.	
4.A.2.b.2.f.2	Develop technical or scientific databases.	
4.A.2.b.2.f.3	Develop library or archival databases.	
4.A.2.b.2.f.4	Create databases to store electronic data.	
4.A.2.b.2.g	Develop plans for managing or preserving natural resources.	
4.A.2.b.2.g.1	Plan natural resources conservation or restoration programs.	
4.A.2.b.2.g.2	Develop environmental remediation or protection plans.	
4.A.2.b.2.g.3	Develop environmental sustainability plans or projects.	
4.A.2.b.2.g.4	Develop plans to manage natural or renewable resources.	
4.A.2.b.2.h	Develop financial or business plans.	
4.A.2.b.2.h.1	Develop financial plans for clients.	
4.A.2.b.2.h.2	Develop financial or business plans.	
4.A.2.b.2.i	Develop health assessment methods or programs.	
4.A.2.b.2.i.1	Develop health assessment methods or programs.	
4.A.2.b.2.i.2	Develop tools to diagnose or assess needs.	
4.A.2.b.2.j	Develop marketing or promotional materials.	
4.A.2.b.2.j.1	Develop promotional materials.	
4.A.2.b.2.j.2	Create marketing materials.	
4.A.2.b.2.j.3	Develop content for sales presentations or other materials.	
4.A.2.b.2.k	Design materials or devices.	
4.A.2.b.2.k.1	Design templates or patterns.	
4.A.2.b.2.k.2	Design materials for industrial or commercial applications.	
4.A.2.b.2.k.3	Design micro- or nano-scale materials, devices, or systems.	
4.A.2.b.2.k.4	Design medical devices or appliances.	
4.A.2.b.2.l	Develop educational programs, plans, or procedures.	
4.A.2.b.2.l.1	Establish work standards.	
4.A.2.b.2.l.2	Design psychological or educational treatment procedures or programs.	
4.A.2.b.2.l.3	Develop instructional objectives.	
4.A.2.b.2.l.4	Plan experiential learning activities.	
4.A.2.b.2.l.5	Establish operational policies.	
4.A.2.b.2.l.6	Plan educational activities.	
4.A.2.b.2.l.7	Develop strategies or programs for students with special needs.	
4.A.2.b.2.l.8	Develop educational programs.	
4.A.2.b.2.l.9	Develop educational or training programs.	
4.A.2.b.2.l.10	Develop educational goals, standards, policies, or procedures.	
4.A.2.b.2.l.11	Develop educational policies.	
4.A.2.b.2.m	Develop systems or practices to mitigate or resolve environmental problems.	
4.A.2.b.2.m.1	Design water conservation systems.	
4.A.2.b.2.m.2	Apply knowledge or research findings to address environmental problems.	
4.A.2.b.2.m.3	Protect wildlife or natural areas.	
4.A.2.b.2.m.4	Design environmental control systems.	
4.A.2.b.2.m.5	Design energy-efficient vehicles or vehicle components.	
4.A.2.b.2.m.6	Design alternative energy systems.	
4.A.2.b.2.m.7	Design systems to reduce harmful emissions.	
4.A.2.b.2.m.8	Design energy-efficient equipment or systems.	
4.A.2.b.2.n	Develop public or community health programs.	
4.A.2.b.2.n.1	Plan programs to address community mental wellness needs.	
4.A.2.b.2.n.2	Plan programs to address community health issues.	
4.A.2.b.2.n.3	Design public or employee health programs.	
4.A.2.b.2.o	Create visual designs or displays.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.1	Prepare drawings or diagrams of products or services.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.2	Prepare production storyboards.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.3	Create graphical representations of civil structures.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.4	Create images of data, locations, or products.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.5	Create electrical schematics.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.6	Create graphical representations of energy production systems.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.7	Create construction or installation diagrams.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.8	Create schematic drawings for electronics.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.9	Design layout of art or product exhibits, displays, or promotional materials.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.10	Create diagrams or blueprints for workpieces or products.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.11	Prepare maps.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.12	Design layouts for print publications.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.13	Develop diagrams or flow charts of system operation.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.14	Prepare graphics or other visual representations of information.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.15	Draw detailed or technical illustrations.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.16	Create graphical representations of structures or landscapes.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.17	Create computer-generated graphics or animation.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.18	Create graphical representations of mechanical equipment.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.19	Create maps.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.20	Create images or other visual displays.	
4.A.2.b.2.o.21	Create graphical representations of industrial production systems.	
4.A.2.b.2.p	Develop contingency or emergency response plans.	
4.A.2.b.2.p.1	Develop emergency procedures.	
4.A.2.b.2.p.2	Maintain contingency plans for disaster recovery.	
4.A.2.b.2.p.3	Develop contingency plans to deal with organizational emergencies.	
4.A.2.b.2.p.4	Develop emergency response plans or procedures.	
4.A.2.b.2.q	Develop sustainable organizational or business policies or practices.	
4.A.2.b.2.q.1	Develop operating strategies, plans, or procedures for green or sustainable operations.	
4.A.2.b.2.q.2	Develop sustainable business strategies or practices.	
4.A.2.b.2.q.3	Develop sustainable organizational policies or practices.	
4.A.2.b.2.q.4	Develop sustainable industrial or development methods.	
4.A.2.b.2.q.5	Develop operational methods or processes that use green materials or emphasize sustainability.	
4.A.2.b.2.r	Develop news, entertainment, or artistic content.	
4.A.2.b.2.r.1	Analyze information obtained from news sources.	
4.A.2.b.2.r.2	Determine presentation subjects or content.	
4.A.2.b.2.s	Develop research plans or methodologies.	
4.A.2.b.2.s.1	Devise research or testing protocols.	
4.A.2.b.2.s.2	Develop biological research methods.	
4.A.2.b.2.s.3	Develop methods of social or economic research.	
4.A.2.b.2.s.4	Design research studies to obtain scientific information.	
4.A.2.b.2.s.5	Plan biological research.	
4.A.2.b.2.s.6	Plan environmental research.	
4.A.2.b.2.s.7	Develop environmental research methods.	
4.A.2.b.2.s.8	Plan social sciences research.	
4.A.2.b.2.t	Create artistic designs or performances.	
4.A.2.b.2.t.1	Create musical compositions, arrangements or scores.	
4.A.2.b.2.t.2	Design costumes or cosmetic effects for characters.	
4.A.2.b.2.t.3	Choreograph dances.	
4.A.2.b.2.t.4	Design jewelry or decorative objects.	
4.A.2.b.2.t.5	Develop artistic or design concepts for decoration, exhibition, or commercial purposes.	
4.A.2.b.2.u	Develop scientific or mathematical theories or models.	
4.A.2.b.2.u.1	Develop theories or models of physical phenomena.	
4.A.2.b.2.u.2	Develop mathematical models of environmental conditions.	
4.A.2.b.2.u.3	Develop scientific or mathematical models.	
4.A.2.b.2.u.4	Develop theories or models of social phenomena.	
4.A.2.b.2.v	Develop organizational or program goals or objectives.	
4.A.2.b.2.v.1	Develop program goals or plans.	
4.A.2.b.2.v.2	Develop organizational goals or objectives.	
4.A.2.b.2.v.3	Develop plans for programs or services.	
4.A.2.b.3	Updating and Using Relevant Knowledge	Keeping up-to-date technically and applying new knowledge to your job.
4.A.2.b.3.a	Maintain current knowledge in area of expertise.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.1	Review professional literature to maintain professional knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.2	Maintain professional social services knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.3	Stay informed about current developments in field of specialization.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.4	Attend events to develop professional knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.5	Maintain current knowledge related to work activities.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.6	Update knowledge of legal or regulatory environments.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.7	Update knowledge about emerging industry or technology trends.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.8	Maintain knowledge of current developments in area of expertise.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.9	Attend conferences or workshops to maintain professional knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.10	Research topics in area of expertise.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.11	Update job related knowledge or skills.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.12	Maintain medical or professional knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.13	Conduct research to inform art, designs, or other work.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.14	Attend training to learn new skills or update knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.15	Maintain knowledge of laws or regulations.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.16	Maintain professional knowledge or certifications.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.17	Maintain knowledge of business operations.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.18	Attend training sessions or professional meetings to develop or maintain professional knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.19	Attend educational events to update medical knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.20	Update technical knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.21	Update professional knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.22	Study product information to acquire professional knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.3.a.23	Review laws or regulations to maintain professional knowledge.	
4.A.2.b.4	Developing Objectives and Strategies	Establishing long-range objectives and specifying the strategies and actions to achieve them.
4.A.2.b.4.a	Develop organizational policies, systems, or processes.	
4.A.2.b.4.a.1	Develop organizational policies or programs.	
4.A.2.b.4.a.2	Develop operating strategies, plans, or procedures.	
4.A.2.b.4.a.3	Establish organizational guidelines or policies.	
4.A.2.b.4.a.4	Develop organizational methods or procedures.	
4.A.2.b.4.a.5	Establish business management methods.	
4.A.2.b.4.a.6	Determine pricing or monetary policies.	
4.A.2.b.4.b	Draft legislation or regulations.	
4.A.2.b.4.b.1	Draft legislation or regulations.	
4.A.2.b.5	Scheduling Work and Activities	Scheduling events, programs, and activities, as well as the work of others.
4.A.2.b.5.a	Prepare schedules for services or facilities.	
4.A.2.b.5.a.1	Arrange facility schedules.	
4.A.2.b.5.a.2	Schedule dining reservations.	
4.A.2.b.5.a.3	Schedule medical facility use.	
4.A.2.b.5.a.4	Schedule activities or facility use.	
4.A.2.b.5.b	Schedule operational activities.	
4.A.2.b.5.b.1	Schedule product or material transportation.	
4.A.2.b.5.b.2	Arrange maintenance activities.	
4.A.2.b.5.b.3	Schedule instructional activities.	
4.A.2.b.5.b.4	Schedule equipment maintenance.	
4.A.2.b.5.b.5	Schedule agricultural or forestry work.	
4.A.2.b.5.b.6	Schedule repair, installation or maintenance activities.	
4.A.2.b.5.b.7	Schedule operational activities.	
4.A.2.b.5.c	Schedule appointments.	
4.A.2.b.5.c.1	Schedule appointments.	
4.A.2.b.5.c.2	Schedule patient procedures or appointments.	
4.A.2.b.5.c.3	Schedule appointments with prospective customers.	
4.A.2.b.6	Organizing, Planning, and Prioritizing Work	Developing specific goals and plans to prioritize, organize, and accomplish your work.
4.A.2.b.6.a	Plan events or programs.	
4.A.2.b.6.a.1	Plan special events.	
4.A.2.b.6.a.2	Plan conferences, programs, or special events.	
4.A.2.b.6.a.3	Plan implementation or promotion of recycling programs.	
4.A.2.b.6.a.4	Plan community programs or activities for the general public.	
4.A.2.b.6.b	Plan work activities.	
4.A.2.b.6.b.1	Plan layout of construction, installation, or repairs.	
4.A.2.b.6.b.2	Plan work procedures.	
4.A.2.b.6.b.3	Plan work operations.	
4.A.2.b.6.b.4	Plan flight operations.	
4.A.2.b.6.b.5	Adjust routes or speeds as necessary.	
4.A.2.b.6.b.6	Plan trapping or hunting activities.	
4.A.2.b.6.b.7	Prepare detailed work plans.	
4.A.2.b.6.b.8	Develop detailed project plans.	
4.A.2.b.6.b.9	Plan production or operational procedures or sequences.	
4.A.3	Work Output	What physical activities are performed, what equipment and vehicles are operated/controlled, and what complex/technical activities are accomplished as job outputs?
4.A.3.a	Performing Physical and Manual Work Activities	What activities using the body and hands are done to perform this job?
4.A.3.a.1	Performing General Physical Activities	Performing general physical activities includes doing activities that require considerable use of your arms and legs and moving your whole body, such as climbing, lifting, balancing, walking, stooping, and handling materials.
4.A.3.a.1.a	Prepare mixtures or solutions.	
4.A.3.a.1.a.1	Prepare compounds or solutions to be used for repairs.	
4.A.3.a.1.a.2	Mix ingredients to create specific finishes.	
4.A.3.a.1.a.3	Mix ingredients.	
4.A.3.a.1.a.4	Mix substances or compounds needed for work activities.	
4.A.3.a.1.a.5	Prepare chemicals for work application.	
4.A.3.a.1.a.6	Prepare materials or solutions for animal or plant use.	
4.A.3.a.1.a.7	Prepare medications or medical solutions.	
4.A.3.a.1.a.8	Mix substances to create chemical solutions.	
4.A.3.a.1.b	Protect people or property from threats such as fires or flooding.	
4.A.3.a.1.b.1	Operate firefighting equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.b.2	Protect property from fire or water damage.	
4.A.3.a.1.b.3	Perform forest firefighting activities.	
4.A.3.a.1.c	Clean tools, equipment, facilities, or work areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.1	Clean vessels or marine equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.2	Clean food preparation areas, facilities, or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.3	Clean furniture or fixtures.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.4	Clean equipment or supplies.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.5	Clean work areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.6	Clean facilities or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.7	Clean patient rooms or patient treatment rooms.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.8	Sterilize food cooking or processing equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.9	Clean facilities or work areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.10	Maintain clean work areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.11	Clean building walls or flooring.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.12	Clean facilities or sites.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.13	Clean work sites.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.14	Clean machinery or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.15	Clean tools or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.16	Clean equipment, parts, or tools to repair or maintain them in good working order.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.17	Decontaminate equipment or sites to remove hazardous or toxic substances.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.18	Perform housekeeping duties.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.19	Clean equipment or facilities.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.20	Clean surfaces in preparation for work activities.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.21	Clean production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.22	Clean food service areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.23	Remove snow.	
4.A.3.a.1.c.24	Clean vehicles or vehicle components.	
4.A.3.a.1.d	Set up protective structures or coverings near work areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.d.1	Protect structures or surfaces near work areas to avoid damage.	
4.A.3.a.1.d.2	Apply protective coverings to objects or surfaces near work areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.e	Dispose of waste or debris.	
4.A.3.a.1.e.1	Dispose of biomedical waste in accordance with standards.	
4.A.3.a.1.e.2	Dispose of hazardous materials.	
4.A.3.a.1.e.3	Remove debris from work sites.	
4.A.3.a.1.e.4	Remove trash.	
4.A.3.a.1.e.5	Remove worn, damaged or outdated materials from work areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.e.6	Remove debris or vegetation from work sites.	
4.A.3.a.1.e.7	Dispose of trash or waste materials.	
4.A.3.a.1.e.8	Remove excess materials from finished construction projects.	
4.A.3.a.1.e.9	Remove debris or damaged materials.	
4.A.3.a.1.f	Load products, materials, or equipment for transportation or further processing.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.1	Load shipments, belongings, or materials.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.2	Load materials into equipment for processing.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.3	Load or unload materials used in construction or extraction.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.4	Place materials into molds.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.5	Load materials into construction equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.6	Load materials or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.7	Load agricultural or forestry products for shipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.8	Stack finished items for further processing or shipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.9	Secure cargo.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.10	Load materials into production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.11	Unload materials or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.f.12	Load items into ovens or furnaces.	
4.A.3.a.1.g	Perform general construction or extraction activities.	
4.A.3.a.1.g.1	Dig holes or trenches.	
4.A.3.a.1.g.2	Prepare surfaces for finishing.	
4.A.3.a.1.g.3	Pour materials into or on designated areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.g.4	Shovel materials.	
4.A.3.a.1.g.5	Spread sand, dirt or other loose materials onto surfaces.	
4.A.3.a.1.g.6	Apply adhesives to construction materials.	
4.A.3.a.1.g.7	Assist skilled construction or extraction personnel.	
4.A.3.a.1.g.8	Compact materials to create level bases.	
4.A.3.a.1.g.9	Spread concrete or other aggregate mixtures.	
4.A.3.a.1.g.10	Finish concrete surfaces.	
4.A.3.a.1.h	Clean workpieces, finished products, or other objects.	
4.A.3.a.1.h.1	Operate garment treatment equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.h.2	Clean fabrics or apparel.	
4.A.3.a.1.h.3	Clean tableware.	
4.A.3.a.1.h.4	Apply water or solutions to fabrics or apparel.	
4.A.3.a.1.h.5	Clean workpieces or finished products.	
4.A.3.a.1.h.6	Clean objects.	
4.A.3.a.1.h.7	Clean materials to prepare them for production.	
4.A.3.a.1.i	Clean medical equipment or facilities.	
4.A.3.a.1.i.1	Sterilize medical equipment or instruments.	
4.A.3.a.1.i.2	Clean medical equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.i.3	Clean medical equipment or facilities.	
4.A.3.a.1.j	Move materials, equipment, or supplies.	
4.A.3.a.1.j.1	Transport biological or other medical materials.	
4.A.3.a.1.j.2	Move equipment, supplies or food to required locations.	
4.A.3.a.1.j.3	Transport animals, crops, or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.j.4	Move materials, equipment, or supplies.	
4.A.3.a.1.j.5	Deliver items.	
4.A.3.a.1.j.6	Move large objects using heavy equipment.	
4.A.3.a.1.j.7	Handle caskets.	
4.A.3.a.1.j.8	Move furniture.	
4.A.3.a.1.j.9	Handle luggage or other possessions for patrons.	
4.A.3.a.1.j.10	Move construction or extraction materials to locations where they are needed.	
4.A.3.a.1.j.11	Move products, materials, or equipment between work areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.k	Maintain safety or security.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.1	Use weapons or physical force to maintain security.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.2	Block physical access to restricted areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.3	Provide security escorts for officials, jury members, or other individuals.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.4	Detain suspects or witnesses.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.5	Maintain public order or security.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.6	Guard facilities.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.7	Maintain security.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.8	Apprehend criminal suspects.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.9	Confiscate prohibited or dangerous items.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.10	Enforce rules or regulations.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.11	Search individuals for illegal or dangerous items.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.12	Prevent unauthorized individuals from entering restricted areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.k.13	Maintain safety.	
4.A.3.a.1.l	Escort others.	
4.A.3.a.1.l.1	Guide patrons on tours.	
4.A.3.a.1.l.2	Provide escort or transportation.	
4.A.3.a.1.l.3	Usher patrons to seats or exits.	
4.A.3.a.1.l.4	Accompany patients or clients on outings to provide assistance.	
4.A.3.a.1.l.5	Escort prisoners to courtrooms, prisons, or other facilities.	
4.A.3.a.1.l.6	Accompany individuals or groups to activities.	
4.A.3.a.1.m	Transport patients or clients.	
4.A.3.a.1.m.1	Transport clients to appointments.	
4.A.3.a.1.m.2	Move patients to or from treatment areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.n	Climb equipment or structures.	
4.A.3.a.1.n.1	Climb ladders or vehicles to perform duties.	
4.A.3.a.1.n.2	Climb equipment or structures to access work areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.o	Provide food or beverage services.	
4.A.3.a.1.o.1	Arrange tables or dining areas.	
4.A.3.a.1.o.2	Serve food or beverages.	
4.A.3.a.1.o.3	Collect dirty dishes or other tableware.	
4.A.3.a.1.p	Perform athletic activities for fitness, competition, or artistic purposes.	
4.A.3.a.1.p.1	Participate in athletic events.	
4.A.3.a.1.p.2	Participate in physical training to maintain fitness.	
4.A.3.a.1.p.3	Practice athletic or artistic skills.	
4.A.3.a.1.q	Perform agricultural activities.	
4.A.3.a.1.q.1	Harvest agricultural products.	
4.A.3.a.1.q.2	Perform manual agricultural, aquacultural, or horticultural tasks.	
4.A.3.a.1.q.3	Cultivate lawns, turf, or gardens.	
4.A.3.a.1.q.4	Prepare land for agricultural use.	
4.A.3.a.1.q.5	Plant greenery to improve landscape appearance.	
4.A.3.a.1.q.6	Plant crops, trees, or other plants.	
4.A.3.a.1.q.7	Cultivate land.	
4.A.3.a.1.q.8	Irrigate lawns, trees, or plants.	
4.A.3.a.2	Handling and Moving Objects	Using hands and arms in handling, installing, positioning, and moving materials, and manipulating things.
4.A.3.a.2.a	Build structures.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.1	Install carpet or flooring.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.2	Install insulation in equipment or structures.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.3	Install masonry materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.4	Assemble structural components.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.5	Install fencing or other barriers.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.6	Install metal structural components.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.7	Install structural foundations.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.8	Assemble temporary equipment or structures.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.9	Build agricultural structures.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.10	Install safety or support equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.11	Install trim or paneling.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.12	Assemble metal structures.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.13	Install building fixtures.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.14	Install doors or windows.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.15	Install roofing materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.16	Construct exhibits or parts of exhibits.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.17	Install wooden structural components.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.18	Install equipment to protect or support trees.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.19	Install hardware or other interior fixtures.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.20	Install green structural components, equipment or systems.	
4.A.3.a.2.a.21	Install prefabricated or manufactured structures.	
4.A.3.a.2.b	Collect samples of products or materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.b.1	Collect samples for analysis or testing.	
4.A.3.a.2.b.2	Collect samples of raw materials or finished products.	
4.A.3.a.2.b.3	Collect samples of materials or products for testing.	
4.A.3.a.2.c	Prepare foods or beverages.	
4.A.3.a.2.c.1	Cut cooked or raw foods.	
4.A.3.a.2.c.2	Prepare foods for cooking or serving.	
4.A.3.a.2.c.3	Prepare meat products for sale or consumption.	
4.A.3.a.2.c.4	Add garnishes to food.	
4.A.3.a.2.c.5	Assist chefs or caterers with food or drink preparation.	
4.A.3.a.2.c.6	Prepare hot or cold beverages.	
4.A.3.a.2.c.7	Cook foods.	
4.A.3.a.2.c.8	Arrange food for serving.	
4.A.3.a.2.c.9	Prepare breads or doughs.	
4.A.3.a.2.c.10	Cut meat products.	
4.A.3.a.2.c.11	Prepare foods or meals.	
4.A.3.a.2.d	Assemble equipment or components.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.1	Install parts, assemblies, or attachments in transportation or material handling equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.2	Assemble equipment or components.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.3	Reassemble equipment after repair.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.4	Assemble precision electronics or optical equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.5	Assemble machine tools, parts, or fixtures.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.6	Assemble electromechanical or hydraulic systems.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.7	Install vehicle parts or accessories.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.8	Install machine or equipment replacement parts.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.9	Bolt objects into place.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.10	Assemble products or production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.11	Assemble electrical or electronic equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.12	Assemble mechanical components or machine parts.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.13	Install gauges or controls.	
4.A.3.a.2.d.14	Assemble electrical components, subsystems, or systems.	
4.A.3.a.2.e	Sew garments or materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.e.1	Sew clothing or other articles.	
4.A.3.a.2.e.2	Sew materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.e.3	Repair textiles or apparel.	
4.A.3.a.2.e.4	Operate sewing equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.f	Position workpieces or materials on equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.f.1	Feed materials or products into or through equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.f.2	Mount attachments or tools onto production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.f.3	Mount materials or workpieces onto production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.f.4	Maneuver workpieces in equipment during production.	
4.A.3.a.2.f.5	Adjust fabrics or other materials during garment production.	
4.A.3.a.2.f.6	Position raw materials on processing or production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.g	Shape materials to create products.	
4.A.3.a.2.g.1	Reshape metal workpieces to established specifications.	
4.A.3.a.2.g.2	Shape clay or dough to create products.	
4.A.3.a.2.g.3	Shape glass or similar materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.g.4	Reshape small metal components for precision assembly.	
4.A.3.a.2.g.5	Shape metal workpieces with hammers or other small hand tools.	
4.A.3.a.2.g.6	Shape surfaces or edges of wood workpieces.	
4.A.3.a.2.h	Arrange displays or decorations.	
4.A.3.a.2.h.1	Arrange artwork, products, or props.	
4.A.3.a.2.h.2	Set up merchandise displays.	
4.A.3.a.2.h.3	Prepare materials for preservation, storage, or display.	
4.A.3.a.2.h.4	Decorate indoor or outdoor spaces.	
4.A.3.a.2.h.5	Arrange items for use or display.	
4.A.3.a.2.i	Adjust equipment to ensure adequate performance.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.1	Adjust tuning or functioning of musical instruments.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.2	Adjust equipment controls to regulate gas flow.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.3	Adjust equipment controls to regulate flow of production materials or products.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.4	Calibrate scientific or technical equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.5	Adjust equipment to ensure optimal performance.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.6	Calibrate equipment to specifications.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.7	Adjust temperature controls of ovens or other heating equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.8	Set equipment controls to meet cutting specifications.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.9	Adjust settings or positions of medical equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.10	Adjust office equipment to ensure proper operation.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.11	Adjust the tension of nuts or bolts.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.12	Adjust equipment controls to regulate coolant flow.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.13	Adjust equipment controls to regulate flow of water, cleaning solutions, or other liquids.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.14	Adjust flow of electricity to tools or production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.15	Adjust vehicle components according to specifications.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.16	Control power supply connections.	
4.A.3.a.2.i.17	Adjust building climate control systems.	
4.A.3.a.2.j	Train animals.	
4.A.3.a.2.j.1	Train animals.	
4.A.3.a.2.k	Prepare medical equipment or work areas for use.	
4.A.3.a.2.k.1	Prepare medical supplies or equipment for use.	
4.A.3.a.2.k.2	Prepare medical instruments or equipment for use.	
4.A.3.a.2.k.3	Prepare patient treatment areas for use.	
4.A.3.a.2.l	Cut materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.l.1	Cut openings in existing structures.	
4.A.3.a.2.l.2	Trim excess material from workpieces.	
4.A.3.a.2.l.3	Cut materials according to specifications or needs.	
4.A.3.a.2.l.4	Cut industrial materials in preparation for fabrication or processing.	
4.A.3.a.2.l.5	Cut tile, stone, or other masonry materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.l.6	Cut metal components for installation.	
4.A.3.a.2.l.7	Cut wood components for installation.	
4.A.3.a.2.l.8	Cut fabrics.	
4.A.3.a.2.l.9	Trim excess material from installations.	
4.A.3.a.2.l.10	Cut glass.	
4.A.3.a.2.l.11	Cut carpet, vinyl or other flexible materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.m	Prepare industrial materials for processing or use.	
4.A.3.a.2.m.1	Prepare explosives for detonation.	
4.A.3.a.2.m.2	Immerse objects or workpieces in cleaning or coating solutions.	
4.A.3.a.2.m.3	Prepare excavation or extraction sites for commissioning or decommissioning.	
4.A.3.a.2.m.4	Prepare hazardous waste for processing or disposal.	
4.A.3.a.2.m.5	Heat material or workpieces to prepare for or complete production.	
4.A.3.a.2.m.6	Melt metal, plastic, or other materials to prepare for production.	
4.A.3.a.2.m.7	Prepare fabrics or materials for processing or production.	
4.A.3.a.2.m.8	Prepare biological feedstock for physical, chemical, or biological processing.	
4.A.3.a.2.m.9	Prepare materials for processing.	
4.A.3.a.2.m.10	Skim impurities from molten metal.	
4.A.3.a.2.m.11	Ignite fuel to activate heating equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.n	Cut trees or other vegetation.	
4.A.3.a.2.n.1	Cut trees or logs.	
4.A.3.a.2.n.2	Trim trees or other vegetation.	
4.A.3.a.2.o	Smooth surfaces of objects or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.o.1	Grind parts to required dimensions.	
4.A.3.a.2.o.2	Remove dents from equipment, materials, tools or structures.	
4.A.3.a.2.o.3	Smooth surfaces of objects or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.o.4	Polish materials, workpieces, or finished products.	
4.A.3.a.2.o.5	Smooth metal surfaces or edges.	
4.A.3.a.2.o.6	Smooth surfaces with abrasive materials or tools.	
4.A.3.a.2.p	Install energy or heating equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.p.1	Install energy-efficient heating, ventilation, or air conditioning (HVAC) equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.p.2	Install solar energy systems.	
4.A.3.a.2.p.3	Install heating, ventilation, or air conditioning (HVAC) equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.q	Fabricate medical devices.	
4.A.3.a.2.q.1	Cast molds of patient anatomies to create medical or dental devices.	
4.A.3.a.2.q.2	Make patient-assistive devices or device models.	
4.A.3.a.2.q.3	Fabricate medical devices.	
4.A.3.a.2.q.4	Construct customized assistive medical or dental devices.	
4.A.3.a.2.r	Direct vehicle traffic.	
4.A.3.a.2.r.1	Direct vehicle traffic.	
4.A.3.a.2.s	Disassemble equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.s.1	Remove parts or components from vehicles.	
4.A.3.a.2.s.2	Disassemble equipment for maintenance or repair.	
4.A.3.a.2.s.3	Disassemble equipment to inspect for deficiencies.	
4.A.3.a.2.s.4	Remove accessories, tools, or other parts from equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.s.5	Dismantle equipment or temporary structures.	
4.A.3.a.2.s.6	Remove parts or components from equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.s.7	Dismantle heavy equipment or machinery.	
4.A.3.a.2.s.8	Disable door locks.	
4.A.3.a.2.t	Install commercial or production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.t.1	Install electrical components, equipment, or systems.	
4.A.3.a.2.t.2	Install drilling equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.t.3	Install audio or communications equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.t.4	Install production equipment or systems.	
4.A.3.a.2.t.5	Install instrumentation or electronic equipment or systems.	
4.A.3.a.2.t.6	Install metering equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.t.7	Install home appliances.	
4.A.3.a.2.u	Apply hygienic or cosmetic agents to skin or hair.	
4.A.3.a.2.u.1	Treat nails by shaping, decorating, or augmenting.	
4.A.3.a.2.u.2	Apply cleansing or conditioning agents to client hair, scalp, or skin.	
4.A.3.a.2.u.3	Apply solutions to hair for therapeutic or cosmetic purposes.	
4.A.3.a.2.u.4	Apply makeup to alter or enhance appearance.	
4.A.3.a.2.v	Position tools or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.v.1	Adjust position of molds during processing.	
4.A.3.a.2.v.2	Position safety or support equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.v.3	Position animal trapping or capture equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.v.4	Position construction forms or molds.	
4.A.3.a.2.v.5	Position construction or extraction equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.v.6	Position equipment using hand tools, power tools, or heavy equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.v.7	Position patterns on equipment, materials, or workpieces.	
4.A.3.a.2.v.8	Level machines or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.v.9	Position containers to receive materials or workpieces.	
4.A.3.a.2.v.10	Position material handling equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.v.11	Position hand tools.	
4.A.3.a.2.w	Tend watercraft.	
4.A.3.a.2.w.1	Secure watercraft to docks, wharves or other vessels.	
4.A.3.a.2.x	Adjust medical equipment to ensure adequate performance.	
4.A.3.a.2.x.1	Adjust prostheses or other assistive devices.	
4.A.3.a.2.x.2	Adjust dental devices or appliances to ensure fit.	
4.A.3.a.2.y	Engrave objects.	
4.A.3.a.2.y.1	Engrave designs, text, or other markings onto materials, workpieces, or products.	
4.A.3.a.2.z	Embalm corpses.	
4.A.3.a.2.z.1	Embalm corpses.	
4.A.3.a.2.aa	Fabricate devices or components.	
4.A.3.a.2.aa.1	Fabricate devices or components.	
4.A.3.a.2.aa.2	Fabricate parts or components.	
4.A.3.a.2.aa.3	Fabricate products or components using machine tools.	
4.A.3.a.2.ab	Create decorative objects or parts of objects.	
4.A.3.a.2.ab.1	Attach decorative or functional accessories to products.	
4.A.3.a.2.ab.2	Construct distinctive physical objects for artistic, functional, or commercial purposes.	
4.A.3.a.2.ac	Process animal carcasses.	
4.A.3.a.2.ac.1	Slaughter animals.	
4.A.3.a.2.ac.2	Remove skin or other body parts from animals.	
4.A.3.a.2.ac.3	Process animal carcasses.	
4.A.3.a.2.ad	Drill holes in earth or materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.ad.1	Drill holes in earth or rock.	
4.A.3.a.2.ad.2	Drill holes in construction materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.ad.3	Drill holes in parts, equipment, or materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.ae	Groom or style hair.	
4.A.3.a.2.ae.1	Groom wigs or hairpieces.	
4.A.3.a.2.ae.2	Trim client hair.	
4.A.3.a.2.af	Set up classrooms, facilities, educational materials, or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.af.1	Set up classroom materials or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.af.2	Arrange childcare or educational settings to ensure physical safety of children.	
4.A.3.a.2.af.3	Display student work.	
4.A.3.a.2.ag	Apply protective solutions or coatings.	
4.A.3.a.2.ag.1	Treat facilities to eliminate pests.	
4.A.3.a.2.ag.2	Paint surfaces or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.ag.3	Apply paint to surfaces.	
4.A.3.a.2.ag.4	Refinish wood or metal surfaces.	
4.A.3.a.2.ag.5	Apply chemical solutions to plants to protect against disease or insects or to enhance growth.	
4.A.3.a.2.ag.6	Apply protective or decorative finishes to workpieces or products.	
4.A.3.a.2.ag.7	Treat greenery or surfaces with protective substances.	
4.A.3.a.2.ag.8	Apply solutions to production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.ag.9	Apply sealants or other protective coatings.	
4.A.3.a.2.ah	Connect components or supply lines to equipment or tools.	
4.A.3.a.2.ah.1	Connect hoses to equipment or machinery.	
4.A.3.a.2.ah.2	Rewire electrical or electronic systems.	
4.A.3.a.2.ah.3	Connect hoses to equipment or piping.	
4.A.3.a.2.ah.4	Lay cables to connect equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.ah.5	Thread wire or cable through ducts or conduits.	
4.A.3.a.2.ah.6	Run wiring to connect equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.ah.7	Connect electrical components or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.ah.8	Connect supply lines to production equipment or tools.	
4.A.3.a.2.ah.9	Connect cables or electrical lines.	
4.A.3.a.2.ai	Join parts using soldering, welding, or brazing techniques.	
4.A.3.a.2.ai.1	Solder parts or workpieces.	
4.A.3.a.2.ai.2	Weld metal components.	
4.A.3.a.2.ai.3	Solder parts or connections between parts.	
4.A.3.a.2.ai.4	Braze metal parts or components.	
4.A.3.a.2.ai.5	Operate welding equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.ai.6	Rivet metal components.	
4.A.3.a.2.aj	Assemble products or work aids.	
4.A.3.a.2.aj.1	Build models, patterns, or templates.	
4.A.3.a.2.aj.2	Assemble garments or textile products.	
4.A.3.a.2.aj.3	Build production molds.	
4.A.3.a.2.aj.4	Assemble wood products.	
4.A.3.a.2.aj.5	Build construction forms or molds.	
4.A.3.a.2.aj.6	Assemble tires.	
4.A.3.a.2.aj.7	Construct patterns, templates, or other work aids.	
4.A.3.a.2.aj.8	Assemble metal or plastic parts or products.	
4.A.3.a.2.ak	Stock supplies or products.	
4.A.3.a.2.ak.1	Stock products or parts.	
4.A.3.a.2.ak.2	Stock medical or patient care supplies.	
4.A.3.a.2.ak.3	Store records or related materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.ak.4	Store supplies or goods in kitchens or storage areas.	
4.A.3.a.2.ak.5	Stock serving stations or dining areas with food or supplies.	
4.A.3.a.2.ak.6	Stock supplies or merchandise.	
4.A.3.a.2.ak.7	Store items.	
4.A.3.a.2.al	Collect environmental or biological samples.	
4.A.3.a.2.al.1	Collect biological specimens from patients.	
4.A.3.a.2.al.2	Collect biological specimens.	
4.A.3.a.2.al.3	Collect geographical or geological field data.	
4.A.3.a.2.al.4	Collect geological samples.	
4.A.3.a.2.al.5	Collect environmental data or samples.	
4.A.3.a.2.am	Apply materials to fill gaps or imperfections.	
4.A.3.a.2.am.1	Apply mortar.	
4.A.3.a.2.am.2	Seal gaps or cracks to prevent leakage or moisture intrusion.	
4.A.3.a.2.am.3	Fill cracks, imperfections, or holes in products or workpieces.	
4.A.3.a.2.am.4	Apply material to fill gaps in surfaces.	
4.A.3.a.2.an	Remove workpieces from production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.an.1	Apply parting agents or other solutions to molds.	
4.A.3.a.2.an.2	Remove workpieces from molds.	
4.A.3.a.2.an.3	Remove products or workpieces from production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.ao	Position materials or components for assembly.	
4.A.3.a.2.ao.1	Align equipment or machinery.	
4.A.3.a.2.ao.2	Lay out parts to prepare for assembly.	
4.A.3.a.2.ao.3	Position structural components.	
4.A.3.a.2.ao.4	Align parts or workpieces to ensure proper assembly.	
4.A.3.a.2.ao.5	Mark reference points on construction materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.ao.6	Lay out work according to specifications.	
4.A.3.a.2.ao.7	Align masonry materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.ao.8	Draw guide lines or markings on materials or workpieces using patterns or other references.	
4.A.3.a.2.ap	Package objects.	
4.A.3.a.2.ap.1	Package agricultural products for shipment or further processing.	
4.A.3.a.2.ap.2	Package products for storage or shipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.ap.3	Package food or supplies.	
4.A.3.a.2.ap.4	Package materials for transport.	
4.A.3.a.2.ap.5	Package materials or products.	
4.A.3.a.2.ap.6	Package objects for shipping.	
4.A.3.a.2.aq	Install plumbing or piping equipment or systems.	
4.A.3.a.2.aq.1	Install green plumbing or water handling systems.	
4.A.3.a.2.aq.2	Install piping for installation or maintenance activities.	
4.A.3.a.2.aq.3	Install plumbing or piping.	
4.A.3.a.2.ar	Hunt animals.	
4.A.3.a.2.ar.1	Locate animals for fishing or hunting purposes.	
4.A.3.a.2.ar.2	Capture or kill animals.	
4.A.3.a.2.as	Apply decorative finishes.	
4.A.3.a.2.as.1	Apply decorative masonry finishes.	
4.A.3.a.2.as.2	Apply finishes to artwork, crafts, or displays.	
4.A.3.a.2.as.3	Apply decorative or textured finishes or coverings.	
4.A.3.a.2.as.4	Apply decorative coloring to photographs or printed materials.	
4.A.3.a.2.at	Set up equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.1	Install equipment attachments or components.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.2	Set up material handling gear or equipment, such as rigging, packaging, or temporary structures.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.3	Attach rigging to objects so they can be moved.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.4	Prepare film for distribution or use.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.5	Set equipment guides, stops, spacers, or other fixtures.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.6	Set up still or video cameras or related equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.7	Prepare hoses or water supplies to fight fires.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.8	Install mechanical components in production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.9	Attach equipment extensions or accessories.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.10	Set up laboratory or field equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.11	Set up mechanical equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.at.12	Set up production or processing equipment.	
4.A.3.a.2.au	Prepare specimens or materials for testing.	
4.A.3.a.2.au.1	Cultivate micro-organisms for study, testing, or medical preparations.	
4.A.3.a.2.au.2	Prepare biological specimens for laboratory analysis.	
4.A.3.a.2.au.3	Prepare biological samples for testing or analysis.	
4.A.3.a.2.au.4	Prepare compounds or solutions for products or testing.	
4.A.3.a.2.au.5	Prepare products for testing.	
4.A.3.a.3	Controlling Machines and Processes	Using either control mechanisms or direct physical activity to operate machines or processes (not including computers or vehicles).
4.A.3.a.3.a	Operate office equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.a.1	Operate office equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.b	Operate pumping systems or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.b.1	Operate pumping systems or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.b.2	Operate pumps or compressors.	
4.A.3.a.3.b.3	Control pumps or pumping equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.c	Operate construction or excavation equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.c.1	Operate drilling equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.c.2	Operate heavy-duty construction or installation equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.c.3	Operate mining equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.c.4	Operate excavation equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.c.5	Break up rock, asphalt, or concrete.	
4.A.3.a.3.c.6	Operate road-surfacing equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.c.7	Operate equipment or vehicles to clear construction sites or move materials.	
4.A.3.a.3.c.8	Operate detonation equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.d	Operate medical equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.d.1	Process x-rays or other medical images.	
4.A.3.a.3.d.2	Create advanced digital images of patients using computer imaging systems.	
4.A.3.a.3.d.3	Operate diagnostic or therapeutic medical instruments or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.d.4	Operate diagnostic imaging equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.d.5	Operate medical equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.e	Operate audiovisual or related equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.e.1	Operate control consoles for sound, lighting or video.	
4.A.3.a.3.e.2	Operate surveillance equipment to detect suspicious or illegal activities.	
4.A.3.a.3.e.3	Operate audiovisual equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.e.4	Operate still or video cameras or related equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.e.5	Operate audio-visual equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.e.6	Operate audio recording equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f	Operate industrial processing or production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.1	Operate chemical processing or water treatment systems or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.2	Operate painting or coating equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.3	Operate recycling equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.4	Operate packing or other material processing equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.5	Smooth garments with irons, presses, or steamers.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.6	Operate cooking, baking, or other food preparation equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.7	Operate heating or drying equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.8	Operate mixing equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.9	Operate conveyors or other industrial material moving equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.10	Operate photographic developing or print production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.11	Operate equipment to print images or bind printed images together.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.12	Operate metal or plastic forming equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.f.13	Operate industrial equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.g	Operate energy production or distribution equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.g.1	Operate energy production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.g.2	Operate natural gas generation equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.g.3	Operate biomass or biofuel production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.g.4	Operate green energy production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.g.5	Operate energy distribution equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.g.6	Operate natural gas distribution equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.h	Operate lifting or moving equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.h.1	Operate forklifts or other loaders.	
4.A.3.a.3.h.2	Lift materials or workpieces using cranes or other lifting equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.h.3	Operate cranes, hoists, or other moving or lifting equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.i	Operate laboratory or field equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.i.1	Operate laboratory or field equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.i.2	Operate precision equipment to control microscopic or nanoscopic processes.	
4.A.3.a.3.i.3	Operate laboratory equipment to analyze medical samples.	
4.A.3.a.3.j	Operate communications equipment or systems.	
4.A.3.a.3.j.1	Operate communications equipment or systems.	
4.A.3.a.3.j.2	Operate communications, transmissions, or broadcasting equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.k	Operate agricultural or forestry equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.k.1	Operate irrigation systems.	
4.A.3.a.3.k.2	Operate forestry equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.k.3	Operate grounds maintenance equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.k.4	Operate farming equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.l	Operate cutting or grinding equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.l.1	Operate grinding equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.l.2	Operate cutting equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.l.3	Operate woodworking equipment.	
4.A.3.a.3.l.4	Operate textile cutting or production equipment.	
4.A.3.a.4	Operating Vehicles, Mechanized Devices, or Equipment	Running, maneuvering, navigating, or driving vehicles or mechanized equipment, such as forklifts, passenger vehicles, aircraft, or watercraft.
4.A.3.a.4.a	Operate transportation equipment or vehicles.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.1	Operate ships or other watercraft.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.2	Navigate water vessels.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.3	Drive vehicles to transport individuals or equipment.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.4	Follow safety procedures for vehicle operation.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.5	Travel to work sites to perform installation, repair or maintenance work.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.6	Operate vehicles or material-moving equipment.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.7	Operate transportation equipment to demonstrate function or malfunction.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.8	Control equipment that regulates vehicle traffic.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.9	Drive vehicles to transport patrons.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.10	Drive trucks or truck-mounted equipment.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.11	Pilot aircraft.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.12	Drive trucks or other vehicles to or at work sites.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.13	Operate locomotives or other rail vehicles.	
4.A.3.a.4.a.14	Drive passenger vehicles.	
4.A.3.b	Performing Complex and Technical Activities	What skilled activities using coordinated movements are done to perform this job?
4.A.3.b.1	Working with Computers	Using computers and computer systems (including hardware and software) to program, write software, set up functions, enter data, or process information.
4.A.3.b.1.a	Program computer systems or production equipment.	
4.A.3.b.1.a.1	Enter commands, instructions, or specifications into equipment.	
4.A.3.b.1.a.2	Program equipment to perform production tasks.	
4.A.3.b.1.a.3	Write computer programming code.	
4.A.3.b.1.a.4	Program robotic equipment.	
4.A.3.b.1.b	Implement security measures for computer or information systems.	
4.A.3.b.1.b.1	Implement security measures for computer or information systems.	
4.A.3.b.1.b.2	Create electronic data backup to prevent loss of information.	
4.A.3.b.1.c	Set up computer systems, networks, or other information systems.	
4.A.3.b.1.c.1	Install computer software.	
4.A.3.b.1.c.2	Install computer hardware.	
4.A.3.b.1.c.3	Install programs onto computer or computer-controlled equipment.	
4.A.3.b.1.c.4	Configure computer networks.	
4.A.3.b.1.d	Resolve computer problems.	
4.A.3.b.1.d.1	Resolve computer network problems.	
4.A.3.b.1.d.2	Troubleshoot issues with computer applications or systems.	
4.A.3.b.1.d.3	Resolve computer software problems.	
4.A.3.b.1.e	Operate computer systems or computerized equipment.	
4.A.3.b.1.e.1	Operate computers or computerized equipment.	
4.A.3.b.1.e.2	Operate computer systems.	
4.A.3.b.1.f	Process digital or online data.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.1	Load digital images onto computers or websites.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.2	Operate digital imaging equipment.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.3	Enter patient or treatment data into computers.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.4	Update website content.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.5	Update computer database information.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.6	Enter information into databases or software programs.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.7	Prepare data for analysis.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.8	Code data or other information.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.9	Download data.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.10	Enter codes or other information into computers.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.11	Convert data among multiple digital or analog formats.	
4.A.3.b.1.f.12	Format digital documents, data, or images.	
4.A.3.b.2	Drafting, Laying Out, and Specifying Technical Devices, Parts, and Equipment	Providing documentation, detailed instructions, drawings, or specifications to tell others about how devices, parts, equipment, or structures are to be fabricated, constructed, assembled, modified, maintained, or used.
4.A.3.b.2.a	Develop technical specifications for products or operations.	
4.A.3.b.2.a.1	Determine design criteria or specifications.	
4.A.3.b.2.a.2	Develop specifications for new products or processes.	
4.A.3.b.2.a.3	Develop specifications or procedures for website development or maintenance.	
4.A.3.b.2.a.4	Develop technical specifications for systems or equipment.	
4.A.3.b.2.a.5	Develop specifications for computer network operation.	
4.A.3.b.2.a.6	Determine operational criteria or specifications.	
4.A.3.b.2.a.7	Develop performance metrics or standards related to information technology.	
4.A.3.b.2.b	Design structures or facilities.	
4.A.3.b.2.b.1	Plan facility layouts or designs.	
4.A.3.b.2.b.2	Incorporate green features into the design of structures or facilities.	
4.A.3.b.2.b.3	Design civil structures or systems.	
4.A.3.b.2.b.4	Design structures or facilities.	
4.A.3.b.2.b.5	Design furniture.	
4.A.3.b.2.c	Design industrial systems or equipment.	
4.A.3.b.2.c.1	Design industrial processing systems.	
4.A.3.b.2.c.2	Develop equipment or component configurations.	
4.A.3.b.2.c.3	Design industrial equipment.	
4.A.3.b.2.c.4	Design energy production or management equipment or systems.	
4.A.3.b.2.c.5	Design tools, fixtures, or other devices for production equipment.	
4.A.3.b.2.c.6	Design control systems for mechanical or other equipment.	
4.A.3.b.2.d	Develop models of systems, processes, or products.	
4.A.3.b.2.d.1	Create models of engineering designs or methods.	
4.A.3.b.2.d.2	Develop models of information or communications systems.	
4.A.3.b.2.d.3	Create physical models or prototypes.	
4.A.3.b.2.e	Design electrical or electronic systems or equipment.	
4.A.3.b.2.e.1	Design electromechanical equipment or systems.	
4.A.3.b.2.e.2	Design electrical equipment or systems.	
4.A.3.b.2.e.3	Design electronic or computer equipment or instrumentation.	
4.A.3.b.2.f	Develop operational or technical procedures or standards.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.1	Develop procedures for data management.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.2	Establish nursing policies or standards.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.3	Develop information communication procedures.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.4	Develop business or financial information systems.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.5	Develop policies or procedures for archives, museums or libraries.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.6	Develop financial analysis methods.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.7	Establish standards for medical care.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.8	Develop guidelines for system implementation.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.9	Develop computer or information security policies or procedures.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.10	Develop data analysis or data management procedures.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.11	Develop technical processes to improve the efficiency of biofuel production.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.12	Develop new or advanced products or production methods.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.13	Develop procedures to evaluate organizational activities.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.14	Develop technical methods or processes.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.15	Develop testing routines or procedures.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.16	Develop procedures for data entry or processing.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.17	Establish standards for products, processes, or procedures.	
4.A.3.b.2.f.18	Develop agricultural methods.	
4.A.3.b.4	Repairing and Maintaining Mechanical Equipment	Servicing, repairing, adjusting, and testing machines, devices, moving parts, and equipment that operate primarily on the basis of mechanical (not electronic) principles.
4.A.3.b.4.a	Maintain facilities or equipment.	
4.A.3.b.4.a.1	Maintain facilities.	
4.A.3.b.4.a.2	Perform basic equipment maintenance.	
4.A.3.b.4.a.3	Maintain plumbing structures or fixtures.	
4.A.3.b.4.a.4	Repair structural components.	
4.A.3.b.4.a.5	Repair pipes to stop leaking.	
4.A.3.b.4.a.6	Service heating, ventilation or air-conditioning (HVAC) systems or components.	
4.A.3.b.4.b	Repair workpieces or products.	
4.A.3.b.4.b.1	Repair furniture or upholstery.	
4.A.3.b.4.b.2	Repair templates, patterns, or molds.	
4.A.3.b.4.b.3	Repair precision devices or workpieces.	
4.A.3.b.4.b.4	Repair parts or assemblies.	
4.A.3.b.4.b.5	Repair books or other printed material.	
4.A.3.b.4.c	Repair tools or equipment.	
4.A.3.b.4.c.1	Replace worn equipment components.	
4.A.3.b.4.c.2	Repair green energy equipment or systems.	
4.A.3.b.4.c.3	Replace worn, damaged, or defective mechanical parts.	
4.A.3.b.4.c.4	Repair production equipment or tools.	
4.A.3.b.4.c.5	Repair worn, damaged, or defective mechanical parts.	
4.A.3.b.4.c.6	Repair mechanical equipment.	
4.A.3.b.4.d	Repair vehicle components.	
4.A.3.b.4.d.1	Repair defective engines or engine components.	
4.A.3.b.4.d.2	Replace vehicle glass.	
4.A.3.b.4.d.3	Repair tires.	
4.A.3.b.4.d.4	Repair non-engine automotive or vehicle components.	
4.A.3.b.4.d.5	Rebuild parts or components.	
4.A.3.b.4.e	Maintain vehicles in working condition.	
4.A.3.b.4.e.1	Service green vehicles to make repairs or maintain good working order.	
4.A.3.b.4.e.2	Maintain vehicles in good working condition.	
4.A.3.b.4.e.3	Maintain watercraft engines or machinery.	
4.A.3.b.4.e.4	Maintain locomotives or other rail equipment in good working condition.	
4.A.3.b.4.e.5	Service vehicles to maintain functionality.	
4.A.3.b.4.e.6	Maintain material moving equipment in good working condition.	
4.A.3.b.4.f	Maintain medical equipment or instruments.	
4.A.3.b.4.f.1	Maintain medical equipment or instruments.	
4.A.3.b.4.f.2	Maintain medical laboratory equipment.	
4.A.3.b.4.f.3	Repair medical or dental assistive devices.	
4.A.3.b.4.f.4	Repair medical facility equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5	Repairing and Maintaining Electronic Equipment	Servicing, repairing, calibrating, regulating, fine-tuning, or testing machines, devices, and equipment that operate primarily on the basis of electrical or electronic (not mechanical) principles.
4.A.3.b.5.a	Maintain tools or equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.1	Maintain mechanical equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.2	Maintain production or processing equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.3	Maintain equipment or systems to ensure proper functioning.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.4	Maintain office equipment in proper operating condition.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.5	Maintain sustainable energy production equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.6	Maintain forestry, hunting, or agricultural equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.7	Lubricate equipment to allow proper functioning.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.8	Maintain drilling equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.9	Clear equipment jams.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.10	Maintain extraction or excavation equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.11	Maintain green energy production plant equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.12	Apply lubricants or coolants to workpieces.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.13	Perform manual service or maintenance tasks.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.14	Maintain construction tools or equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.15	Maintain fire fighting tools or equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.16	Maintain work equipment or machinery.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.17	Lubricate production equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.18	Maintain electromechanical equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.a.19	Sharpen cutting or grinding tools.	
4.A.3.b.5.b	Repair electrical or electronic equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.b.1	Repair electrical circuits or wiring.	
4.A.3.b.5.b.2	Repair electrical equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.b.3	Repair electronic equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.b.4	Repair electrical components.	
4.A.3.b.5.c	Maintain electronic, computer, or other technical equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.c.1	Maintain computer hardware.	
4.A.3.b.5.c.2	Maintain computer networks to enhance performance and user access.	
4.A.3.b.5.c.3	Maintain recording or broadcasting equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.c.4	Maintain electronic equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.c.5	Maintain laboratory or technical equipment.	
4.A.3.b.5.c.6	Maintain computer equipment or software.	
4.A.3.b.5.c.7	Maintain test equipment.	
4.A.3.b.6	Documenting/Recording Information	Entering, transcribing, recording, storing, or maintaining information in written or electronic/magnetic form.
4.A.3.b.6.a	Prepare financial documents, reports, or budgets.	
4.A.3.b.6.a.1	Prepare financial documents.	
4.A.3.b.6.a.2	Prepare financial documents, reports, or budgets.	
4.A.3.b.6.b	Record information about legal matters.	
4.A.3.b.6.b.1	Prepare written decisions for legal proceedings.	
4.A.3.b.6.b.2	Prepare documentation of legal proceedings.	
4.A.3.b.6.b.3	Record information about legal matters.	
4.A.3.b.6.b.4	Record information about suspects or criminals.	
4.A.3.b.6.b.5	Record information from legal proceedings.	
4.A.3.b.6.b.6	Prepare investigation or incident reports.	
4.A.3.b.6.b.7	Document information related to legal proceedings.	
4.A.3.b.6.b.8	Record information about suspicious objects.	
4.A.3.b.6.c	Present research or technical information.	
4.A.3.b.6.c.1	Present research results to others.	
4.A.3.b.6.c.2	Prepare research or technical reports.	
4.A.3.b.6.c.3	Prepare research reports.	
4.A.3.b.6.c.4	Prepare scientific or technical reports or presentations.	
4.A.3.b.6.c.5	Prepare analytical reports.	
4.A.3.b.6.c.6	Write reports or evaluations.	
4.A.3.b.6.c.7	Prepare research or technical reports on environmental issues.	
4.A.3.b.6.c.8	Prepare technical or operational reports.	
4.A.3.b.6.c.9	Prepare technical reports for internal use.	
4.A.3.b.6.c.10	Present medical research reports.	
4.A.3.b.6.d	Record information about environmental conditions.	
4.A.3.b.6.d.1	Record information about environmental conditions.	
4.A.3.b.6.e	Record images with photographic or audiovisual equipment.	
4.A.3.b.6.e.1	Record images needed to address work issues.	
4.A.3.b.6.e.2	Record crime or accident scene evidence with video or still cameras.	
4.A.3.b.6.e.3	Document events or evidence, using photographic or audiovisual equipment.	
4.A.3.b.6.f	Prepare health or medical documents.	
4.A.3.b.6.f.1	Prepare official health documents or records.	
4.A.3.b.6.f.2	Document client health or progress.	
4.A.3.b.6.f.3	Prepare medical reports or documents.	
4.A.3.b.6.f.4	Prepare reports summarizing patient diagnostic or care activities.	
4.A.3.b.6.g	Prepare proposals or grant applications.	
4.A.3.b.6.g.1	Develop proposals for current or prospective customers.	
4.A.3.b.6.g.2	Write grant proposals.	
4.A.3.b.6.g.3	Prepare proposal documents.	
4.A.3.b.6.g.4	Prepare proposals or grant applications to obtain project funding.	
4.A.3.b.6.g.5	Prepare proposal documents or grant applications.	
4.A.3.b.6.h	Maintain operational records.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.1	Record details of deliveries or shipments.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.2	Document operational procedures.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.3	Record operational or production data.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.4	Maintain operational records for green energy processes or other environmentally-sustainable activities.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.5	Maintain operational records.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.6	Maintain client information or service records.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.7	Maintain inventory records.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.8	Record agricultural or forestry inventory data.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.9	Maintain records, documents, or other files.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.10	Maintain personnel records.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.11	Document operational activities.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.12	Maintain student records.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.13	Record information about parts, materials or repair procedures.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.14	Maintain data in information systems or databases.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.15	Maintain records of customer accounts.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.16	Transcribe spoken or written information.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.17	Document work hours or activities.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.18	Record research or operational data.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.19	Record operational details of travel.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.20	Record shipping information.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.21	Maintain operational records or records systems.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.22	Record service or repair activities.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.23	Maintain social services program records.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.24	Maintain repair or maintenance records.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.25	Maintain call records.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.26	Record personnel information.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.27	Record operational or environmental data.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.28	Maintain logs of production activities.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.29	Record information from meetings or other formal proceedings.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.30	Document organizational or operational procedures.	
4.A.3.b.6.h.31	Record production information.	
4.A.3.b.6.i	Document technical designs, procedures, or activities.	
4.A.3.b.6.i.1	Prepare procedural documents.	
4.A.3.b.6.i.2	Document technical design details.	
4.A.3.b.6.i.3	Document network-related activities or tasks.	
4.A.3.b.6.i.4	Document technical specifications or requirements.	
4.A.3.b.6.i.5	Document design or development procedures.	
4.A.3.b.6.i.6	Document test results.	
4.A.3.b.6.i.7	Document design or operational test results.	
4.A.3.b.6.j	Maintain sales or financial records.	
4.A.3.b.6.j.1	Record sales or transactions data.	
4.A.3.b.6.j.2	Maintain records of sales or other business transactions.	
4.A.3.b.6.j.3	Maintain financial or account records.	
4.A.3.b.6.k	Maintain health or medical records.	
4.A.3.b.6.k.1	Maintain client records.	
4.A.3.b.6.k.2	Maintain medical facility records.	
4.A.3.b.6.k.3	Record vital statistics or other health information.	
4.A.3.b.6.k.4	Record patient medical histories.	
4.A.3.b.6.k.5	Maintain medical records.	
4.A.3.b.6.l	Prepare informational or instructional materials.	
4.A.3.b.6.l.1	Document lesson plans.	
4.A.3.b.6.l.2	Organize informational materials.	
4.A.3.b.6.l.3	Create technology-based learning materials.	
4.A.3.b.6.l.4	Modify teaching methods or materials to accommodate student needs.	
4.A.3.b.6.l.5	Write informational material.	
4.A.3.b.6.l.6	Prepare healthcare training materials.	
4.A.3.b.6.l.7	Prepare informational or reference materials.	
4.A.3.b.6.l.8	Prepare instruction manuals.	
4.A.3.b.6.l.9	Develop instructional materials.	
4.A.3.b.6.l.10	Develop training materials.	
4.A.3.b.6.m	Prepare documentation for contracts, applications, or permits.	
4.A.3.b.6.m.1	Prepare sales or other contracts.	
4.A.3.b.6.m.2	Prepare contracts or other transaction documents.	
4.A.3.b.6.m.3	Prepare documentation for permits or licenses.	
4.A.3.b.6.m.4	Prepare forms or applications.	
4.A.3.b.6.m.5	Prepare documentation for contracts, transactions, or regulatory compliance.	
4.A.3.b.6.m.6	Prepare contracts, disclosures, or applications.	
4.A.3.b.6.n	Prepare legal or regulatory documents.	
4.A.3.b.6.n.1	Prepare legal or investigatory documentation.	
4.A.3.b.6.n.2	Prepare reports related to compliance matters.	
4.A.3.b.6.n.3	Maintain the order of legal documents.	
4.A.3.b.6.n.4	Maintain regulatory or compliance documentation.	
4.A.3.b.6.n.5	Prepare regulatory or compliance documentation.	
4.A.3.b.6.n.6	Prepare information or documentation related to legal or regulatory matters.	
4.A.3.b.6.n.7	Complete documentation required by programs or regulations.	
4.A.3.b.6.n.8	Document legal or regulatory information.	
4.A.3.b.6.n.9	Prepare legal documents.	
4.A.3.b.6.o	Prepare reports of operational or procedural activities.	
4.A.3.b.6.o.1	Prepare operational reports or records.	
4.A.3.b.6.o.2	Prepare reports detailing student activities or performance.	
4.A.3.b.6.o.3	Prepare accident or incident reports.	
4.A.3.b.6.o.4	Prepare operational reports.	
4.A.3.b.6.o.5	Write operational reports.	
4.A.3.b.6.o.6	Prepare operational progress or status reports.	
4.A.3.b.6.p	Write material for artistic or commercial purposes.	
4.A.3.b.6.p.1	Write articles, books or other original materials in area of expertise.	
4.A.3.b.6.p.2	Write material for artistic or entertainment purposes.	
4.A.3.b.6.p.3	Write advertising or promotional material.	
4.A.4	Interacting With Others	What interactions with other persons or supervisory activities occur while performing this job?
4.A.4.a	Communicating and Interacting	What interactions with other people occur while performing this job?
4.A.4.a.1	Interpreting the Meaning of Information for Others	Translating or explaining what information means and how it can be used.
4.A.4.a.1.a	Explain technical details of products or services.	
4.A.4.a.1.a.1	Present work to clients for approval.	
4.A.4.a.1.a.2	Explain use of products or services.	
4.A.4.a.1.a.3	Discuss goods or services information with customers or patrons.	
4.A.4.a.1.a.4	Explain engineering drawings, specifications, or other technical information.	
4.A.4.a.1.a.5	Explain technical product or service information to customers.	
4.A.4.a.1.a.6	Provide information about landscaping services or costs.	
4.A.4.a.1.b	Explain regulations, policies, or procedures.	
4.A.4.a.1.b.1	Inform others about laws or regulations.	
4.A.4.a.1.b.2	Inform the public about policies, services or procedures.	
4.A.4.a.1.b.3	Communicate organizational policies and procedures.	
4.A.4.a.1.b.4	Explain regulations, policies, or procedures.	
4.A.4.a.1.b.5	Communicate organizational information to customers or other stakeholders.	
4.A.4.a.1.b.6	Communicate with clients about products, procedures, and policies.	
4.A.4.a.1.c	Interpret language, cultural, or religious information for others.	
4.A.4.a.1.c.1	Translate information for others.	
4.A.4.a.1.c.2	Interpret cultural or religious information for others.	
4.A.4.a.1.d	Explain financial information.	
4.A.4.a.1.d.1	Educate clients on financial planning topics.	
4.A.4.a.1.d.2	Interpret financial information for others.	
4.A.4.a.1.d.3	Explain financial information to customers.	
4.A.4.a.1.e	Explain medical information to patients or family members.	
4.A.4.a.1.e.1	Communicate detailed medical information to patients or family members.	
4.A.4.a.1.e.2	Confer with family members to discuss client treatment plans or progress.	
4.A.4.a.1.e.3	Confer with clients to discuss treatment plans or progress.	
4.A.4.a.1.e.4	Explain technical medical information to patients.	
4.A.4.a.1.e.5	Explain medical procedures or test results to patients or family members.	
4.A.4.a.2	Communicating with Supervisors, Peers, or Subordinates	Providing information to supervisors, co-workers, and subordinates by telephone, in written form, e-mail, or in person.
4.A.4.a.2.a	Communicate environmental or sustainability information.	
4.A.4.a.2.a.1	Communicate with the public on environmental issues.	
4.A.4.a.2.a.2	Communicate green energy production information.	
4.A.4.a.2.a.3	Communicate results of environmental research.	
4.A.4.a.2.b	Assist scientists, scholars, or technical specialists with projects or research.	
4.A.4.a.2.b.1	Collaborate on research activities with scientists or technical specialists.	
4.A.4.a.2.b.2	Assist other educational professionals with projects or research.	
4.A.4.a.2.b.3	Assist engineers or scientists with research.	
4.A.4.a.2.c	Communicate with others about operational plans or activities.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.1	Communicate with other workers to coordinate activities.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.2	Provide information to coworkers.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.3	Confer with coworkers to coordinate maintenance or cleaning activities.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.4	Meet with coworkers to communicate work orders or plans.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.5	Discuss problems or issues with supervisors.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.6	Communicate with others to coordinate vehicle movement.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.7	Discuss performance, complaints, or violations with supervisors.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.8	Communicate with other construction or extraction personnel to discuss project details.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.9	Liaise between departments or other groups to improve function or communication.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.10	Report information to managers or other personnel.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.11	Relay information between personnel.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.12	Communicate with coworkers to coordinate installations or repairs.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.13	Confer with managers to make operational decisions.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.14	Confer with organizational members to accomplish work activities.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.15	Confer with coworkers to coordinate work activities.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.16	Communicate with others to coordinate material handling or movement.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.17	Communicate dining or order details to kitchen personnel.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.18	Confer with others to conduct or arrange operational activities.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.19	Receive information or instructions for performing work assignments.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.20	Exchange information with colleagues.	
4.A.4.a.2.c.21	Communicate safety or hazard information to others.	
4.A.4.a.2.d	Confer with healthcare or other professionals about patient care.	
4.A.4.a.2.d.1	Inform medical professionals regarding patient conditions and care.	
4.A.4.a.2.d.2	Confer with other professionals to plan patient care.	
4.A.4.a.2.d.3	Collaborate with other professionals to assess client needs or plan treatments.	
4.A.4.a.2.d.4	Communicate test or assessment results to medical professionals.	
4.A.4.a.2.d.5	Collaborate with healthcare professionals to plan or provide treatment.	
4.A.4.a.2.d.6	Communicate patient status to other health practitioners.	
4.A.4.a.2.e	Communicate with others about business strategies.	
4.A.4.a.2.e.1	Collaborate with others in marketing activities.	
4.A.4.a.2.e.2	Collaborate with others to develop or implement marketing strategies.	
4.A.4.a.2.e.3	Confer with personnel to coordinate business operations.	
4.A.4.a.2.e.4	Share sales-related or market information with colleagues.	
4.A.4.a.2.e.5	Discuss business strategies, practices, or policies with managers.	
4.A.4.a.2.f	Collaborate in the development of educational programs.	
4.A.4.a.2.f.1	Collaborate with other professionals to develop education or assistance programs.	
4.A.4.a.2.f.2	Collaborate with other agencies and institutions to coordinate educational matters.	
4.A.4.a.2.f.3	Collaborate with other teaching professionals to develop educational programs.	
4.A.4.a.2.g	Notify others of emergencies or problems.	
4.A.4.a.2.g.1	Communicate situation details to appropriate personnel.	
4.A.4.a.2.g.2	Notify others of equipment repair or maintenance needs.	
4.A.4.a.2.g.3	Request emergency personnel.	
4.A.4.a.2.g.4	Notify others of equipment problems.	
4.A.4.a.2.g.5	Report vehicle or equipment malfunctions.	
4.A.4.a.2.g.6	Relay information about incidents or emergencies to personnel using phones or two-way radios.	
4.A.4.a.2.g.7	Notify others of emergencies, problems, or hazards.	
4.A.4.a.2.g.8	Report maintenance or equipment problems to appropriate personnel.	
4.A.4.a.2.g.9	Warn individuals about rule violations or safety concerns.	
4.A.4.a.2.h	Communicate with others about specifications or project details.	
4.A.4.a.2.h.1	Collaborate with others to determine production details.	
4.A.4.a.2.h.2	Discuss production content and progress with others.	
4.A.4.a.2.h.3	Confer with technical personnel to prepare designs or operational plans.	
4.A.4.a.2.h.4	Collaborate with others to develop or refine designs.	
4.A.4.a.2.h.5	Collaborate with others to determine technical details of productions.	
4.A.4.a.2.h.6	Discuss design or technical features of products or services with technical personnel.	
4.A.4.a.2.h.7	Collaborate with others to determine design specifications or details.	
4.A.4.a.2.h.8	Consult with others regarding safety or health equipment or facilities.	
4.A.4.a.2.h.9	Communicate project information to others.	
4.A.4.a.2.i	Discuss legal matters with clients, disputants, or legal professionals or staff.	
4.A.4.a.2.i.1	Meet with individuals involved in legal processes to provide information and clarify issues.	
4.A.4.a.2.i.2	Confer with court staff to clarify information.	
4.A.4.a.2.j	Confer with clients to determine needs or order specifications.	
4.A.4.a.2.j.1	Discuss service options or needs with clients.	
4.A.4.a.2.j.2	Confer with clients to exchange information.	
4.A.4.a.2.j.3	Confer with clients to determine needs.	
4.A.4.a.2.j.4	Confer with customers or users to assess problems.	
4.A.4.a.2.j.5	Confer with customers or designers to determine order specifications.	
4.A.4.a.2.j.6	Discuss designs or plans with clients.	
4.A.4.a.3	Communicating with People Outside the Organization	Communicating with people outside the organization, representing the organization to customers, the public, government, and other external sources. This information can be exchanged in person, in writing, or by telephone or e-mail.
4.A.4.a.3.a	Present information in legal proceedings.	
4.A.4.a.3.a.1	Testify at legal or legislative proceedings.	
4.A.4.a.3.a.2	Represent the interests of clients in legal proceedings.	
4.A.4.a.3.b	Provide information or assistance to the public.	
4.A.4.a.3.b.1	Communicate health and wellness information to the public.	
4.A.4.a.3.b.2	Present sustainable products or services information to the public.	
4.A.4.a.3.b.3	Present information to the public.	
4.A.4.a.3.b.4	Provide educational information to the public.	
4.A.4.a.3.b.5	Provide technical information or assistance to public.	
4.A.4.a.3.b.6	Explain project details to the general public.	
4.A.4.a.3.b.7	Report news to the public.	
4.A.4.a.3.b.8	Provide information to the general public.	
4.A.4.a.3.b.9	Present social services program information to the public.	
4.A.4.a.3.b.10	Inform viewers, listeners, or audiences.	
4.A.4.a.3.c	Provide information to guests, clients, or customers.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.1	Present food or beverage information or menus to customers.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.2	Present business-related information to audiences.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.3	Provide attraction or event information to patrons.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.4	Discuss account status or activity with customers or patrons.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.5	Provide customer service to clients or users.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.6	Inform individuals or organizations of status or findings.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.7	Provide notifications to customers or patrons.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.8	Provide customers with general information or assistance.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.9	Provide basic information to guests, visitors, or clients.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.10	Provide patrons with directions to locales or attractions.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.11	Answer telephones to direct calls or provide information.	
4.A.4.a.3.c.12	Provide transportation information to passengers or customers.	
4.A.4.a.4	Establishing and Maintaining Interpersonal Relationships	Developing constructive and cooperative working relationships with others, and maintaining them over time.
4.A.4.a.4.a	Develop professional relationships or networks.	
4.A.4.a.4.a.1	Develop collaborative relationships between departments or with external organizations.	
4.A.4.a.4.a.2	Develop business relationships.	
4.A.4.a.4.a.3	Develop working relationships with others to facilitate program activities.	
4.A.4.a.4.a.4	Establish interpersonal business relationships to facilitate work activities.	
4.A.4.a.4.a.5	Develop professional relationships or networks.	
4.A.4.a.5	Assisting and Caring for Others	Providing personal assistance, medical attention, emotional support, or other personal care to others such as coworkers, customers, or patients.
4.A.4.a.5.a	Assist others to access additional services or resources.	
4.A.4.a.5.a.1	Refer customers to appropriate personnel.	
4.A.4.a.5.a.2	Refer patients to other healthcare practitioners or health resources.	
4.A.4.a.5.a.3	Help clients get needed services or resources.	
4.A.4.a.5.a.4	Arrange physical or mental health services for clients.	
4.A.4.a.5.a.5	Refer individuals to educational or work programs.	
4.A.4.a.5.a.6	Refer clients to community or social service programs.	
4.A.4.a.5.b	Administer therapeutic treatments.	
4.A.4.a.5.b.1	Treat patients using psychological therapies.	
4.A.4.a.5.b.2	Implement therapeutic programs to improve patient functioning.	
4.A.4.a.5.b.3	Administer therapy treatments to patients using hands or physical treatment aids.	
4.A.4.a.5.b.4	Administer therapeutic massages.	
4.A.4.a.5.b.5	Treat patients using physical therapy techniques.	
4.A.4.a.5.c	Administer basic health care or medical treatments.	
4.A.4.a.5.c.1	Give medications or immunizations.	
4.A.4.a.5.c.2	Administer basic health care or medical treatments.	
4.A.4.a.5.c.3	Administer anesthetics or sedatives to control pain.	
4.A.4.a.5.c.4	Care for women during pregnancy and childbirth.	
4.A.4.a.5.c.5	Provide basic health care services.	
4.A.4.a.5.c.6	Administer non-intravenous medications.	
4.A.4.a.5.c.7	Immunize patients.	
4.A.4.a.5.c.8	Administer intravenous medications.	
4.A.4.a.5.c.9	Administer blood or other fluids intravenously.	
4.A.4.a.5.c.10	Administer medical substances for imaging or other procedures.	
4.A.4.a.5.c.11	Apply bandages, dressings, or splints.	
4.A.4.a.5.d	Care for plants or animals.	
4.A.4.a.5.d.1	Care for plants or animals.	
4.A.4.a.5.d.2	Care for animals.	
4.A.4.a.5.d.3	Perform animal breeding procedures.	
4.A.4.a.5.d.4	Provide care for animals.	
4.A.4.a.5.e	Intervene in crisis situations or emergencies.	
4.A.4.a.5.e.1	Rescue people from hazardous situations.	
4.A.4.a.5.e.2	Respond to emergencies to provide assistance.	
4.A.4.a.5.e.3	Respond to transportation emergencies.	
4.A.4.a.5.e.4	Assist others during emergencies.	
4.A.4.a.5.f	Fit assistive devices to patients or clients.	
4.A.4.a.5.f.1	Fit eyeglasses, contact lenses, or other vision aids.	
4.A.4.a.5.f.2	Fit patients for assistive devices.	
4.A.4.a.5.g	Administer emergency medical treatment.	
4.A.4.a.5.g.1	Provide first aid or rescue assistance in emergencies.	
4.A.4.a.5.g.2	Administer first aid.	
4.A.4.a.5.g.3	Treat medical emergencies.	
4.A.4.a.5.g.4	Implement advanced life support techniques.	
4.A.4.a.5.h	Assist individuals with paperwork.	
4.A.4.a.5.h.1	Assist individuals with paperwork.	
4.A.4.a.5.i	Assist individuals with special needs.	
4.A.4.a.5.i.1	Feed patients.	
4.A.4.a.5.i.2	Assist patients with hygiene or daily living activities.	
4.A.4.a.5.i.3	Assist clients in handling details of daily life.	
4.A.4.a.5.i.4	Develop daily schedules for children or families.	
4.A.4.a.5.i.5	Assist students with special educational needs.	
4.A.4.a.5.i.6	Assist disabled or incapacitated individuals.	
4.A.4.a.5.i.7	Assist individuals with special needs.	
4.A.4.a.5.i.8	Provide for basic needs of children.	
4.A.4.a.5.i.9	Assist patients with daily activities.	
4.A.4.a.5.j	Provide general assistance to others, such as customers, patrons, or motorists.	
4.A.4.a.5.j.1	Assist motorists or pedestrians.	
4.A.4.a.5.j.2	Greet customers, patrons, or visitors.	
4.A.4.a.5.j.3	Assist customers to ensure comfort or safety.	
4.A.4.a.5.j.4	Assist patrons with entering or exiting vehicles or other forms of transportation.	
4.A.4.a.5.j.5	Make travel, accommodations, or entertainment arrangements for others.	
4.A.4.a.5.j.6	Assist passengers during vehicle boarding.	
4.A.4.a.5.j.7	Help patrons use library or archival resources.	
4.A.4.a.5.j.8	Assist customers with seating arrangements.	
4.A.4.a.5.j.9	Arrange services or reservations for patrons.	
4.A.4.a.5.j.10	Assist customers with product selection.	
4.A.4.a.5.k	Assist healthcare practitioners during medical procedures.	
4.A.4.a.5.k.1	Assist practitioners to perform medical procedures.	
4.A.4.a.5.k.2	Hold patients to ensure proper positioning or safety.	
4.A.4.a.5.k.3	Adjust positions of patients on beds or tables.	
4.A.4.a.5.k.4	Position patients for treatment or examination.	
4.A.4.a.5.k.5	Assist healthcare practitioners during examinations or treatments.	
4.A.4.a.5.k.6	Assist healthcare practitioners during surgery.	
4.A.4.a.5.k.7	Prepare patients physically for medical procedures.	
4.A.4.a.5.k.8	Maintain sterile operative fields.	
4.A.4.a.5.l	Treat injuries, illnesses, or diseases.	
4.A.4.a.5.l.1	Care for patients with mental illnesses.	
4.A.4.a.5.l.2	Treat acute illnesses, infections, or injuries.	
4.A.4.a.5.l.3	Operate on patients to treat conditions.	
4.A.4.a.5.l.4	Treat dental problems or diseases.	
4.A.4.a.5.l.5	Treat animal injuries or illnesses.	
4.A.4.a.5.l.6	Administer cancer treatments.	
4.A.4.a.5.l.7	Treat chronic diseases or disorders.	
4.A.4.a.5.l.8	Treat patients using alternative medical procedures.	
4.A.4.a.6	Selling or Influencing Others	Convincing others to buy merchandise/goods or to otherwise change their minds or actions.
4.A.4.a.6.a	Advocate for individual or community needs.	
4.A.4.a.6.a.1	Advocate for individual or community needs.	
4.A.4.a.6.b	Sell products or services.	
4.A.4.a.6.b.1	Merchandise healthcare products or services.	
4.A.4.a.6.b.2	Sell agricultural products.	
4.A.4.a.6.b.3	Customize financial products or services to meet customer needs.	
4.A.4.a.6.b.4	Contract real estate to clients.	
4.A.4.a.6.b.5	Sell products or services.	
4.A.4.a.6.b.6	Customize energy products or services to meet customer needs.	
4.A.4.a.6.c	Promote products, services, or programs.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.1	Perform marketing activities.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.2	Demonstrate products to consumers.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.3	Promote environmental sustainability or conservation initiatives.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.4	Market products, services, or events.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.5	Contact current or potential customers to promote products or services.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.6	Promote educational institutions or programs.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.7	Deliver promotional presentations to current or prospective customers.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.8	Promote agricultural or hunting activities.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.9	Distribute promotional literature or samples to customers.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.10	Promote products, activities, or organizations.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.11	Model cosmetics, clothing, or accessories.	
4.A.4.a.6.c.12	Promote products, services, or programs.	
4.A.4.a.7	Resolving Conflicts and Negotiating with Others	Handling complaints, settling disputes, and resolving grievances and conflicts, or otherwise negotiating with others.
4.A.4.a.7.a	Mediate disputes.	
4.A.4.a.7.a.1	Resolve interpersonal conflicts.	
4.A.4.a.7.a.2	Arbitrate disputes between parties to resolve legal conflicts.	
4.A.4.a.7.a.3	Mediate disputes.	
4.A.4.a.7.b	Negotiate contracts or agreements.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.1	Negotiate sales or lease agreements for products or services.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.2	Arrange collective bargaining agreements.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.3	Negotiate labor disputes.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.4	Negotiate contracts for transportation, distribution, or logistics services.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.5	Negotiate purchases or contracts.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.6	Negotiate financial arrangements.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.7	Negotiate prices or other sales terms.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.8	Negotiate contracts for environmental remediation, green energy, or renewable resources.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.9	Negotiate agreements to resolve disputes.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.10	Negotiate contracts with clients or service providers.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.11	Negotiate project specifications.	
4.A.4.a.7.b.12	Negotiate for services.	
4.A.4.a.7.c	Resolve personnel or operational problems.	
4.A.4.a.7.c.1	Resolve employee or contractor problems.	
4.A.4.a.7.c.2	Resolve operational performance problems.	
4.A.4.a.7.c.3	Resolve personnel problems.	
4.A.4.a.7.c.4	Resolve issues affecting transportation operations.	
4.A.4.a.8	Performing for or Working Directly with the Public	Performing for people or dealing directly with the public. This includes serving customers in restaurants and stores, and receiving clients or guests.
4.A.4.a.8.a	Present arts or entertainment performances.	
4.A.4.a.8.a.1	Audition for roles.	
4.A.4.a.8.a.2	Perform for recordings.	
4.A.4.a.8.a.3	Perform music for the public.	
4.A.4.a.8.a.4	Collaborate with others to prepare or perform artistic productions.	
4.A.4.a.8.a.5	Entertain public with comedic or dramatic performances.	
4.A.4.a.8.a.6	Perform dances.	
4.A.4.a.8.b	Conduct amusement or gaming activities.	
4.A.4.a.8.b.1	Operate gaming equipment.	
4.A.4.a.8.b.2	Conduct amusement or gaming activities.	
4.A.4.a.8.c	Respond to customer problems or inquiries.	
4.A.4.a.8.c.1	Respond to customer problems or complaints.	
4.A.4.a.8.c.2	Respond to customer inquiries.	
4.A.4.a.8.c.3	Answer customer questions about goods or services.	
4.A.4.a.8.c.4	Communicate with customers to resolve complaints or ensure satisfaction.	
4.A.4.a.8.c.5	Resolve customer complaints or problems.	
4.A.4.a.8.c.6	Correspond with customers to answer questions or resolve complaints.	
4.A.4.b	Coordinating, Developing, Managing, and Advising	What coordinating, managerial, or advisory activities are done while performing this job?
4.A.4.b.1	Coordinating the Work and Activities of Others	Getting members of a group to work together to accomplish tasks.
4.A.4.b.1.a	Coordinate with others to resolve problems.	
4.A.4.b.1.a.1	Confer with others to resolve production problems or equipment malfunctions.	
4.A.4.b.1.a.2	Confer with other personnel to resolve design or operational problems.	
4.A.4.b.1.a.3	Collaborate with others to resolve information technology issues.	
4.A.4.b.1.a.4	Communicate with management or other staff to resolve problems.	
4.A.4.b.1.a.5	Collaborate with technical specialists to resolve design or development problems.	
4.A.4.b.1.a.6	Confer with coworkers to resolve equipment problems.	
4.A.4.b.1.b	Signal others to coordinate work activities.	
4.A.4.b.1.b.1	Signal others to coordinate vehicle movement.	
4.A.4.b.1.b.2	Signal others to coordinate work activities.	
4.A.4.b.1.b.3	Signal equipment operators to indicate proper equipment positioning.	
4.A.4.b.1.c	Coordinate activities with clients, agencies, or organizations.	
4.A.4.b.1.c.1	Communicate with government agencies.	
4.A.4.b.1.c.2	Communicate technical information to suppliers, contractors, or regulatory agencies.	
4.A.4.b.1.c.3	Collaborate with outside groups to develop programs or projects.	
4.A.4.b.1.c.4	Coordinate with external parties to exchange information.	
4.A.4.b.1.c.5	Collaborate with law enforcement or security agencies to share information.	
4.A.4.b.1.c.6	Coordinate operational activities with external stakeholders.	
4.A.4.b.1.c.7	Coordinate activities with suppliers, contractors, clients, or other departments.	
4.A.4.b.1.c.8	Confer with others about financial matters.	
4.A.4.b.1.c.9	Represent the organization in external relations.	
4.A.4.b.1.c.10	Collaborate with law enforcement or security agencies to respond to incidents.	
4.A.4.b.1.d	Coordinate artistic or entertainment activities.	
4.A.4.b.1.d.1	Manage content of broadcasts or presentations.	
4.A.4.b.1.d.2	Direct productions or performances.	
4.A.4.b.1.d.3	Coordinate musical rehearsals or performances.	
4.A.4.b.1.d.4	Coordinate athletic or sporting events or activities.	
4.A.4.b.1.d.5	Coordinate artistic activities.	
4.A.4.b.1.e	Coordinate group, community, or public activities.	
4.A.4.b.1.e.1	Organize recreational activities or events.	
4.A.4.b.1.e.2	Coordinate student extracurricular activities.	
4.A.4.b.1.e.3	Coordinate special events or programs.	
4.A.4.b.1.e.4	Host events.	
4.A.4.b.1.e.5	Organize special events.	
4.A.4.b.1.e.6	Manage outreach activities.	
4.A.4.b.1.f	Assign work to others.	
4.A.4.b.1.f.1	Plan employee work schedules.	
4.A.4.b.1.f.2	Prepare staff schedules or work assignments.	
4.A.4.b.1.f.3	Prepare activity or work schedules.	
4.A.4.b.1.f.4	Prepare employee work schedules.	
4.A.4.b.1.f.5	Assign class work to students.	
4.A.4.b.1.f.6	Assign duties or work schedules to employees.	
4.A.4.b.1.g	Coordinate regulatory compliance activities.	
4.A.4.b.1.g.1	Coordinate regulatory documentation activities.	
4.A.4.b.1.g.2	Coordinate safety or regulatory compliance activities.	
4.A.4.b.1.g.3	Manage documentation to ensure organization or accuracy.	
4.A.4.b.2	Developing and Building Teams	Encouraging and building mutual trust, respect, and cooperation among team members.
4.A.4.b.2.a	Provide support or encouragement to others.	
4.A.4.b.2.a.1	Encourage patients during therapeutic activities.	
4.A.4.b.2.a.2	Visit individuals in their homes to provide support or information.	
4.A.4.b.2.a.3	Encourage students.	
4.A.4.b.2.a.4	Interact with patients to build rapport or provide emotional support.	
4.A.4.b.2.a.5	Support the professional development of others.	
4.A.4.b.2.a.6	Encourage patients or clients to develop life skills.	
4.A.4.b.3	Training and Teaching Others	Identifying the educational needs of others, developing formal educational or training programs or classes, and teaching or instructing others.
4.A.4.b.3.a	Teach life skills.	
4.A.4.b.3.a.1	Teach basic living or other adaptive skills to patients or caregivers.	
4.A.4.b.3.a.2	Teach life skills or strategies to clients or their families.	
4.A.4.b.3.a.3	Teach daily living skills or behaviors.	
4.A.4.b.3.a.4	Teach life skills.	
4.A.4.b.3.b	Teach academic or vocational subjects.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.1	Teach vocational courses.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.2	Teach classes in area of specialization.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.3	Teach social science courses at the college level.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.4	Lead classes or community events.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.5	Guide class discussions.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.6	Apply multiple teaching methods.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.7	Teach online courses.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.8	Instruct college students in social sciences or humanities disciplines.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.9	Instruct college students in physical or life sciences.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.10	Tutor students who need extra assistance.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.11	Teach humanities courses at the college level.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.12	Teach physical science or mathematics courses at the college level.	
4.A.4.b.3.b.13	Read to students.	
4.A.4.b.3.c	Teach safety procedures or standards to others.	
4.A.4.b.3.c.1	Educate the public about fire safety or prevention.	
4.A.4.b.3.c.2	Teach safety standards or environmental compliance methods.	
4.A.4.b.3.c.3	Provide safety training.	
4.A.4.b.3.d	Train others on operational or work procedures.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.1	Train personnel to enhance job skills.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.2	Train personnel on proper operational procedures.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.3	Train others in operational procedures.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.4	Train personnel.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.5	Train sales personnel.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.6	Instruct staff in work policies or procedures.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.7	Train others on performance techniques.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.8	Train staff members.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.9	Train workers in farming, forestry, or hunting techniques.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.10	Train food preparation or food service personnel.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.11	Train employees on environmental awareness, conservation, or safety topics.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.12	Train personnel in organizational or compliance procedures.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.13	Train construction or extraction personnel.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.14	Train employees in proper work procedures.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.15	Train personnel in technical or scientific procedures.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.16	Conduct employee training programs.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.17	Train personnel on managerial topics.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.18	Train others on work processes.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.19	Train transportation or material moving personnel.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.20	Train service staff.	
4.A.4.b.3.d.21	Train staff members in social services skills.	
4.A.4.b.3.e	Train others to use equipment or products.	
4.A.4.b.3.e.1	Instruct workers to use equipment or perform technical procedures.	
4.A.4.b.3.e.2	Instruct patients in the use of assistive equipment.	
4.A.4.b.3.e.3	Teach others to use computer equipment or hardware.	
4.A.4.b.3.e.4	Train others in computer interface or software use.	
4.A.4.b.3.e.5	Teach others to use technology or equipment.	
4.A.4.b.3.e.6	Demonstrate activity techniques or equipment use.	
4.A.4.b.3.e.7	Train customers in the use of products.	
4.A.4.b.3.f	Train others on health or medical topics.	
4.A.4.b.3.f.1	Teach exercise or fitness techniques.	
4.A.4.b.3.f.2	Engage patients in exercises or activities.	
4.A.4.b.3.f.3	Teach physical education.	
4.A.4.b.3.f.4	Teach medical procedures or medical equipment use to patients.	
4.A.4.b.3.f.5	Train patients, family members, or caregivers in techniques for managing disabilities or illnesses.	
4.A.4.b.3.f.6	Conduct health or safety training programs.	
4.A.4.b.3.f.7	Teach health or hygiene practices.	
4.A.4.b.3.f.8	Train medical providers.	
4.A.4.b.3.f.9	Teach health management classes.	
4.A.4.b.3.f.10	Teach medical procedures to healthcare personnel.	
4.A.4.b.3.f.11	Train caregivers or other non-medical personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4	Guiding, Directing, and Motivating Subordinates	Providing guidance and direction to subordinates, including setting performance standards and monitoring performance.
4.A.4.b.4.a	Supervise personnel activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.1	Supervise maintenance workers.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.2	Supervise engineering or other technical personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.3	Supervise trainees.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.4	Supervise service workers.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.5	Supervise production or support personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.6	Direct activities of subordinates.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.7	Supervise information technology personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.8	Supervise clerical or administrative personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.9	Supervise activities of other legal personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.10	Supervise scientific or technical personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.11	Supervise medical support personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.12	Supervise workers providing client or patient services.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.13	Supervise employees.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.14	Supervise patient care personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.15	Supervise technical medical personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.16	Supervise sales or support personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.17	Supervise laboratory work.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.18	Supervise student research or internship work.	
4.A.4.b.4.a.19	Supervise workers performing environmentally sustainable activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.b	Serve on organizational committees.	
4.A.4.b.4.b.1	Serve on institutional or departmental committees.	
4.A.4.b.4.c	Manage agricultural or forestry operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.c.1	Coordinate forestry or agricultural activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.c.2	Manage agricultural or forestry operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.c.3	Direct activities of agricultural, forestry, or fishery employees.	
4.A.4.b.4.d	Supervise activities in correctional facilities.	
4.A.4.b.4.d.1	Supervise inmate activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.d.2	Count prison inmates or personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.e	Direct scientific or technical activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.e.1	Direct surveying activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.e.2	Direct technical activities or operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.e.3	Coordinate design activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.e.4	Coordinate software or hardware installation.	
4.A.4.b.4.e.5	Direct scientific activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.e.6	Direct natural resources management or conservation programs.	
4.A.4.b.4.e.7	Manage information technology projects or system activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.e.8	Manage scientific or technical project resources.	
4.A.4.b.4.e.9	Direct medical science or healthcare programs.	
4.A.4.b.4.e.10	Direct design or development activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.e.11	Coordinate cross-disciplinary research programs.	
4.A.4.b.4.f	Manage human resources activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.f.1	Coordinate training activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.f.2	Coordinate personnel recruitment activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.f.3	Direct employee training programs.	
4.A.4.b.4.f.4	Manage human resources activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.g	Manage control systems or activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.g.1	Direct quality control activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.g.2	Coordinate flight control or management activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.g.3	Manage control system activities in organizations.	
4.A.4.b.4.h	Manage budgets or finances.	
4.A.4.b.4.h.1	Manage budgets for personal services operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.h.2	Direct financial operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.h.3	Direct fundraising or financing activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.h.4	Prepare operational budgets.	
4.A.4.b.4.h.5	Manage organizational or project budgets.	
4.A.4.b.4.h.6	Manage financial activities of the organization.	
4.A.4.b.4.h.7	Manage budgets for appropriate resource allocation.	
4.A.4.b.4.h.8	Manage organizational or program finances.	
4.A.4.b.4.h.9	Prepare operational budgets for green energy or other green operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.h.10	Prepare project budgets.	
4.A.4.b.4.i	Direct construction or extraction activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.i.1	Direct natural resources extraction projects.	
4.A.4.b.4.i.2	Direct construction or extraction personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.i.3	Direct construction activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.i.4	Direct installation activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.i.5	Coordinate construction project activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.i.6	Coordinate construction or installation activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.i.7	Manage construction activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j	Direct organizational operations, activities, or procedures.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.1	Direct operational or production activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.2	Direct environmental development activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.3	Direct sales, marketing, or customer service activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.4	Direct equipment maintenance or repair activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.5	Coordinate sales campaigns.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.6	Direct funeral or mortuary activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.7	Manage environmental sustainability projects.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.8	Oversee business processes.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.9	Coordinate logistics or other business operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.10	Direct green energy production operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.11	Manage guest services.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.12	Manage operations, research, or logistics projects.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.13	Coordinate activities of food service staff.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.14	Direct operations of correctional facilities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.15	Coordinate timing of food production activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.16	Coordinate shipping activities with external parties.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.17	Direct administrative or support services.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.18	Manage operations of artistic or entertainment departments or organizations.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.19	Coordinate activities of production personnel.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.20	Coordinate logistics for productions or events.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.21	Direct maintenance or repair activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.22	Manage food service operations or parts of operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.23	Direct healthcare delivery programs.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.24	Direct industrial production activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.25	Direct maintenance and repair activities in green energy production facilities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.26	Direct energy production or management activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.27	Direct facility maintenance or repair activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.28	Manage clerical or administrative activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.29	Arrange delivery of goods or services.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.30	Direct passenger or freight transport activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.31	Direct material handling or moving activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.32	Coordinate project activities with other personnel or departments.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.33	Direct department activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.34	Coordinate reporting or editing activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.35	Manage preparation of special meals or diets.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.36	Coordinate resource procurement activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.37	Coordinate operational activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.38	Manage healthcare operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.j.39	Direct organizational operations, projects, or services.	
4.A.4.b.4.k	Direct security or safety activities or operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.k.1	Direct emergency management activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.k.2	Manage organizational security activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.k.3	Direct fire fighting or prevention activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.k.4	Coordinate enforcement of laws or regulations.	
4.A.4.b.4.k.5	Direct security operations.	
4.A.4.b.4.l	Direct legal activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.l.1	Direct criminal investigations.	
4.A.4.b.4.l.2	Direct law enforcement activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.l.3	Coordinate legal schedules or activities.	
4.A.4.b.4.l.4	Direct courtroom activities or procedures.	
4.A.4.b.5	Coaching and Developing Others	Identifying the developmental needs of others and coaching, mentoring, or otherwise helping others to improve their knowledge or skills.
4.A.4.b.5.a	Coach others.	
4.A.4.b.5.a.1	Coach others.	
4.A.4.b.6	Providing Consultation and Advice to Others	Providing guidance and expert advice to management or other groups on technical, systems-, or process-related topics.
4.A.4.b.6.a	Advise patients or clients on medical issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.a.1	Provide health and wellness advice to patients, program participants, or caregivers.	
4.A.4.b.6.a.2	Advise patients on preventive care techniques.	
4.A.4.b.6.a.3	Provide medical or cosmetic advice for clients.	
4.A.4.b.6.a.4	Advise patients on effects of health conditions or treatments.	
4.A.4.b.6.a.5	Advise patients on healthcare system processes.	
4.A.4.b.6.b	Advise others on products or services.	
4.A.4.b.6.b.1	Recommend types of assistive devices.	
4.A.4.b.6.b.2	Advise customers on technical or procedural issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.b.3	Advise customers on the use of products or services.	
4.A.4.b.6.b.4	Recommend products or services to customers.	
4.A.4.b.6.c	Advise others on environmental sustainability or green practices.	
4.A.4.b.6.c.1	Advise others about environmental management or conservation.	
4.A.4.b.6.c.2	Advise others regarding green practices or environmental concerns.	
4.A.4.b.6.c.3	Advise others on green energy or related technologies.	
4.A.4.b.6.c.4	Advise others about land management or conservation.	
4.A.4.b.6.d	Advise others on the design or use of technologies.	
4.A.4.b.6.d.1	Provide technical guidance to other personnel.	
4.A.4.b.6.d.2	Provide technical support for software maintenance or use.	
4.A.4.b.6.d.3	Provide recommendations to others about computer hardware.	
4.A.4.b.6.d.4	Advise others on the development or use of new technologies.	
4.A.4.b.6.d.5	Provide technical support for computer network issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.d.6	Recommend changes to improve computer or information systems.	
4.A.4.b.6.e	Advise others on business or operational matters.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.1	Advise others on farming or forestry operations, regulations, or equipment.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.2	Advise others on logistics topics.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.3	Recommend personnel decisions or human resources activities.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.4	Recommend packing or shipping methods.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.5	Advise others on analytical techniques.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.6	Advise others on issues related to repairs, installation, or equipment design.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.7	Recommend organizational process or policy changes.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.8	Advise others on human resources topics.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.9	Recommend technical design or process changes to improve efficiency, quality, or performance.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.10	Advise others on business or operational matters.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.11	Advise others on ways to improve processes or products.	
4.A.4.b.6.e.12	Recommend changes or corrective procedures.	
4.A.4.b.6.f	Advise others on healthcare or wellness issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.f.1	Advise medical personnel regarding healthcare issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.f.2	Advise communities or institutions regarding health or safety issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.f.3	Advise clients or community groups on health issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.f.4	Advise athletes, coaches, or trainers on exercise regimens, nutrition, or equipment use.	
4.A.4.b.6.f.5	Advise others on healthcare matters.	
4.A.4.b.6.g	Advise others on educational or vocational matters.	
4.A.4.b.6.g.1	Advise others on social or educational issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.g.2	Advise students on academic or career matters.	
4.A.4.b.6.g.3	Discuss child development and behavior with parents or guardians.	
4.A.4.b.6.g.4	Counsel clients regarding educational or vocational issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.g.5	Advise educators on curricula, instructional methods, or policies.	
4.A.4.b.6.g.6	Advise others on career or personal development.	
4.A.4.b.6.g.7	Advise others on educational matters.	
4.A.4.b.6.g.8	Discuss student progress with parents or guardians.	
4.A.4.b.6.h	Advise others on legal or regulatory matters.	
4.A.4.b.6.h.1	Provide legal advice to clients.	
4.A.4.b.6.h.2	Advise others on matters of public policy.	
4.A.4.b.6.h.3	Recommend legal actions.	
4.A.4.b.6.h.4	Advise others on legal or regulatory compliance matters.	
4.A.4.b.6.i	Advise others on workplace health or safety issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.i.1	Advise others on management of emergencies or hazardous situations or materials.	
4.A.4.b.6.i.2	Recommend improvements to increase safety or reduce risks.	
4.A.4.b.6.i.3	Advise others on health and safety issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.j	Counsel others about personal matters.	
4.A.4.b.6.j.1	Intervene in crisis situations to assist clients.	
4.A.4.b.6.j.2	Counsel clients or patients with substance abuse issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.j.3	Provide counsel, comfort, or encouragement to individuals or families.	
4.A.4.b.6.j.4	Counsel clients regarding interpersonal issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.j.5	Counsel family members of clients or patients.	
4.A.4.b.6.j.6	Counsel clients on mental health or personal achievement.	
4.A.4.b.6.j.7	Counsel clients or patients regarding personal issues.	
4.A.4.b.6.k	Advise others on financial matters.	
4.A.4.b.6.k.1	Advise real estate clients.	
4.A.4.b.6.k.2	Recommend investments to clients.	
4.A.4.b.6.k.3	Advise others on financial matters.	
4.A.4.c	Administering	What administrative, staffing, monitoring, or controlling activities are done while performing this job?
4.A.4.c.1	Performing Administrative Activities	Performing day-to-day administrative tasks such as maintaining information files and processing paperwork.
4.A.4.c.1.a	Perform administrative or clerical activities.	
4.A.4.c.1.a.1	Classify materials according to standard systems.	
4.A.4.c.1.a.2	File documents or records.	
4.A.4.c.1.a.3	Process healthcare paperwork.	
4.A.4.c.1.a.4	Prepare business correspondence.	
4.A.4.c.1.a.5	Perform student enrollment or registration activities.	
4.A.4.c.1.a.6	Perform clerical work in medical settings.	
4.A.4.c.1.a.7	Type documents.	
4.A.4.c.1.a.8	Process library materials.	
4.A.4.c.1.a.9	Prepare administrative documents.	
4.A.4.c.1.a.10	Perform administrative or clerical tasks.	
4.A.4.c.1.b	Perform court-related or other legal administrative activities.	
4.A.4.c.1.b.1	Administer oaths to court participants.	
4.A.4.c.1.b.2	Serve court ordered documents.	
4.A.4.c.1.c	Execute financial transactions.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.1	Operate cash registers.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.2	Submit financial applications.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.3	Process medical billing information.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.4	Execute sales or other financial transactions.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.5	Issue money, credit, or vouchers.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.6	Process customer bills or payments.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.7	Pay charges, fees, or taxes.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.8	Arrange insurance coverage.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.9	Take customer orders.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.10	Take product orders from customers.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.11	Process sales or other transactions.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.12	Disburse funds from clients accounts to creditors.	
4.A.4.c.1.c.13	Conduct gaming transactions.	
4.A.4.c.1.d	Issue documentation.	
4.A.4.c.1.d.1	Issue permits or other legal documents.	
4.A.4.c.1.d.2	Issue documentation or identification to customers or employees.	
4.A.4.c.1.d.3	Issue warnings or citations.	
4.A.4.c.1.d.4	Issue certificates or licenses.	
4.A.4.c.1.e	Process shipments or mail.	
4.A.4.c.1.e.1	Receive shipments.	
4.A.4.c.1.e.2	Prepare outgoing mail.	
4.A.4.c.1.e.3	Send information, materials or documentation.	
4.A.4.c.1.e.4	Route mail to correct destinations.	
4.A.4.c.1.e.5	Prepare outgoing shipments.	
4.A.4.c.1.f	Process forensic or legal evidence.	
4.A.4.c.1.f.1	Process forensic or legal evidence in accordance with procedures.	
4.A.4.c.2	Staffing Organizational Units	Recruiting, interviewing, selecting, hiring, and promoting employees in an organization.
4.A.4.c.2.a	Perform recruiting or hiring activities.	
4.A.4.c.2.a.1	Audition or interview potential performers or staff members.	
4.A.4.c.2.a.2	Conduct eligibility or selection interviews.	
4.A.4.c.2.a.3	Hire personnel.	
4.A.4.c.2.a.4	Participate in staffing decisions.	
4.A.4.c.2.a.5	Recruit personnel.	
4.A.4.c.2.a.6	Select staff, team members, or performers.	
4.A.4.c.2.a.7	Hire farming, fishing or forestry workers.	
4.A.4.c.2.a.8	Administer personnel recruitment or hiring activities.	
4.A.4.c.2.b	Perform human resources activities.	
4.A.4.c.2.b.1	Perform human resources activities.	
4.A.4.c.2.b.2	Administer compensation or benefits programs.	
4.A.4.c.2.b.3	Administer standardized physical or psychological tests.	
4.A.4.c.3	Monitoring and Controlling Resources	Monitoring and controlling resources and overseeing the spending of money.
4.A.4.c.3.a	Replenish inventories of materials, equipment, or products.	
4.A.4.c.3.a.1	Maintain food, beverage, or equipment inventories.	
4.A.4.c.3.a.2	Maintain inventory of medical supplies or equipment.	
4.A.4.c.3.a.3	Manage inventories of products or organizational resources.	
4.A.4.c.3.a.4	Maintain supply or equipment inventories.	
4.A.4.c.3.a.5	Maintain inventories of materials, equipment, or products.	
4.A.4.c.3.a.6	Maintain the inventory of equipment.	
4.A.4.c.3.b	Order medical tests or procedures.	
4.A.4.c.3.b.1	Order medical diagnostic or clinical tests.	
4.A.4.c.3.c	Distribute materials, supplies, or resources.	
4.A.4.c.3.c.1	Distribute instructional or library materials.	
4.A.4.c.3.c.2	Allocate physical resources within organizations.	
4.A.4.c.3.c.3	Distribute materials to employees or customers.	
4.A.4.c.3.c.4	Assign resources or facilities to patrons or employees.	
4.A.4.c.3.c.5	Distribute resources to patrons or employees.	
4.A.4.c.3.c.6	Provide educational materials to community members.	
4.A.4.c.3.c.7	Distribute incoming mail.	
4.A.4.c.3.c.8	Distribute supplies to workers.	
4.A.4.c.3.d	Collect fares or payments.	
4.A.4.c.3.d.1	Collect deposits, payments or fees.	
4.A.4.c.3.d.2	Collect fares or payment from customers.	
4.A.4.c.3.d.3	Collect payments for goods or services.	
4.A.4.c.3.e	Purchase goods or services.	
4.A.4.c.3.e.1	Order materials, supplies, or equipment.	
4.A.4.c.3.e.2	Order instructional or library materials or equipment.	
4.A.4.c.3.e.3	Purchase materials, equipment, or other resources.	
4.A.4.c.3.e.4	Purchase stocks of merchandise or supplies.	
4.A.4.c.3.e.5	Order construction or extraction materials or equipment.	
4.A.4.c.3.e.6	Purchase products or services.	
4.A.4.c.3.e.7	Order medical supplies or equipment.	
4.A.4.c.3.e.8	Acquire supplies or equipment.	
4.A.4.c.3.f	Prescribe medical treatments or devices.	
4.A.4.c.3.f.1	Prescribe treatments or therapies.	
4.A.4.c.3.f.2	Control prescription refills or authorizations.	
4.A.4.c.3.f.3	Prescribe medications.	
4.A.4.c.3.f.4	Prescribe assistive medical devices or related treatments.	
4.A.4.c.3.g	Monitor resources or inventories.	
4.A.4.c.3.g.1	Monitor availability of equipment or supplies.	
4.A.4.c.3.g.2	Inventory materials or equipment.	
4.A.4.c.3.g.3	Inventory medical supplies or equipment.	
4.A.4.c.3.g.4	Monitor inventories of products or materials.	
4.A.4.c.3.g.5	Monitor resources.	
4.C	Work Context	Physical and social conditions in which work is performed.
4.C.1	Interpersonal Relationships	This category describes the context of the job in terms of human interaction processes
4.C.1.a	Communication	Types and frequency of interactions with other people that are required as part of this job.
4.C.1.a.2	Communication Methods	How frequently does this job require the use of the following communication methods?
4.C.1.a.2.c	Public Speaking	How frequently does your job require public speaking (one speaker with an audience)?
4.C.1.a.2.f	Telephone Conversations	How often do you have telephone conversations in this job?
4.C.1.a.2.h	E-Mail	How frequently does your job require you to use E-mail?
4.C.1.a.2.j	Written Letters and Memos	How frequently does your job require written letters and memos?
4.C.1.a.2.l	Face-to-Face Discussions with Individuals and Within Teams	How frequently does your job require face-to-face discussions with individuals and within teams?
4.C.1.a.4	Contact With Others	How much does this job require the worker to be in contact with others (face-to-face, by telephone, or otherwise) in order to perform it?
4.C.1.b	Role Relationships	Importance of different types of interactions with others both inside and outside the organization
4.C.1.b.1	Job Interactions	How important are interactions requiring the worker to:
4.C.1.b.1.e	Work With or Contribute to a Work Group or Team	How important is it to work with or contribute to a work group or team in this job?
4.C.1.b.1.f	Deal With External Customers or the Public in General	How important is it to deal with external customers (as in retail sales) or the public in general (as in police work) in this job?
4.C.1.b.1.g	Coordinate or Lead Others in Accomplishing Work Activities	How important is it to coordinate or lead others (not as a supervisor or team leader) in accomplishing work activities in this job?
4.C.1.c	Responsibility for Others	Amount of responsibility the worker has for other workers as a part of this job
4.C.1.c.1	Health and Safety of Other Workers	How much responsibility is there for the health and safety of others in this job?
4.C.1.c.2	Work Outcomes and Results of Other Workers	How responsible is the worker for work outcomes and results of other workers?
4.C.1.d	Conflictual Contact	Amount of conflict that the worker will encounter as part of this job
4.C.1.d.1	Conflict Situations	How frequently are there conflict situations the employee has to face in this job?
4.C.1.d.2	Dealing With Unpleasant, Angry, or Discourteous People	How frequently does the worker have to deal with unpleasant, angry, or discourteous individuals as part of the job requirements?
4.C.1.d.3	Dealing with Violent or Physically Aggressive People	How frequently does this job require the worker to deal with physical aggression of violent individuals?
4.C.2	Physical Work Conditions	This category describes the work context as it relates to the interactions between the worker and the physical job environment
4.C.2.a	Work Setting	Description of physical surroundings that the worker will face as part of this job
4.C.2.a.1	Frequency Required to Work:	How frequently does this job require the worker to work:
4.C.2.a.1.a	Indoors, Environmentally Controlled	How often does this job require working indoors in an environmentally controlled environment (like a warehouse with air conditioning)?
4.C.2.a.1.b	Indoors, Not Environmentally Controlled	How often does this job require working in an environment that is not environmentally controlled (like a warehouse without air conditioning)?
4.C.2.a.1.c	Outdoors, Exposed to All Weather Conditions	How often does this job require working outdoors, exposed to all weather conditions?
4.C.2.a.1.d	Outdoors, Under Cover	How often does this job require working outdoors, under cover (like in an open shed)?
4.C.2.a.1.e	In an Open Vehicle or Operating Equipment	How often does this job require working in an open vehicle or operating equipment (like a tractor)?
4.C.2.a.1.f	In an Enclosed Vehicle or Operate Enclosed Equipment	How often does this job require working in a closed vehicle or operate enclosed equipment (like a car)?
4.C.2.a.3	Physical Proximity	To what extent does this job require the worker to perform job tasks physically close to other people?
4.C.2.b	Environmental Conditions	Description of extreme environmental conditions the worker will be placed in as part of this job
4.C.2.b.1	Frequency in Environmental Conditions	How often during a usual work period is the worker exposed to the following conditions:
4.C.2.b.1.a	Exposed to Sounds, Noise Levels that are Distracting or Uncomfortable	How often does this job require working exposed to sounds and noise levels that are distracting or uncomfortable?
4.C.2.b.1.b	Exposed to Very Hot or Cold Temperatures	How often does this job require working in very hot (above 90 F degrees) or very cold (below 32 F degrees) temperatures?
4.C.2.b.1.c	Exposed to Extremely Bright or Inadequate Lighting Conditions	How often does this job require working in extremely bright or inadequate lighting conditions?
4.C.2.b.1.d	Exposed to Contaminants	How often does this job require working exposed to contaminants (such as pollutants, gases, dust or odors)?
4.C.2.b.1.e	Exposed to Cramped Work Space, Awkward Positions	How often does this job require working in cramped work spaces that requires getting into awkward positions?
4.C.2.b.1.f	Exposed to Whole Body Vibration	How often does this job require exposure to whole body vibration (like operating a jackhammer or earth moving equipment)?
4.C.2.c	Job Hazards	Descriptions of types of hazardous conditions the worker could be exposed to as part of this job. This includes the frequency of exposure, and the likelihood and degree of injury if exposed.
4.C.2.c.1	Frequency of Exposure to Job Hazards	How often does this job require the worker to be exposed to the following hazards?
4.C.2.c.1.a	Exposed to Radiation	How often does this job require exposure to radiation?
4.C.2.c.1.b	Exposed to Disease or Infections	How often does this job require exposure to disease/infections?
4.C.2.c.1.c	Exposed to High Places	How often does this job require exposure to high places?
4.C.2.c.1.d	Exposed to Hazardous Conditions	How often does this job require exposure to hazardous conditions?
4.C.2.c.1.e	Exposed to Hazardous Equipment	How often does this job require exposure to hazardous equipment?
4.C.2.c.1.f	Exposed to Minor Burns, Cuts, Bites, or Stings	How often does this job require exposure to minor burns, cuts, bites, or stings?
4.C.2.c.2	Likelihood of Injury From Job Hazards	What is the likelihood that the worker would be injured as a result of being exposed to the following hazards while performing this job?
4.C.2.c.3	Degree of Injury	If injury, due to exposure to the following hazards, were to occur while performing this job, how serious would be the likely outcome?
4.C.2.d	Body Positioning	Amount of time the worker will spend in a variety of physical positions on this job
4.C.2.d.1	Time Spent in Body Positions	How much time in a usual work period does the worker spend:
4.C.2.d.1.a	Spend Time Sitting	How much does this job require sitting?
4.C.2.d.1.b	Spend Time Standing	How much does this job require standing?
4.C.2.d.1.c	Spend Time Climbing Ladders, Scaffolds, or Poles	How much does this job require climbing ladders, scaffolds, poles, etc.?
4.C.2.d.1.d	Spend Time Walking or Running	How much does this job require walking or running?
4.C.2.d.1.e	Spend Time Kneeling, Crouching, Stooping, or Crawling	How much does this job require kneeling, crouching, stooping or crawling?
4.C.2.d.1.f	Spend Time Keeping or Regaining Balance	How much does this job require keeping or regaining your balance?
4.C.2.d.1.g	Spend Time Using Your Hands to Handle, Control, or Feel Objects, Tools, or Controls	How much does this job require using your hands to handle, control, or feel objects, tools or controls?
4.C.2.d.1.h	Spend Time Bending or Twisting Your Body	How much does this job require bending or twisting your body?
4.C.2.d.1.i	Spend Time Making Repetitive Motions	How much does this job require making repetitive motions?
4.C.2.e	Work Attire	Dress requirements of this job
4.C.2.e.1	Frequency of Wearing Work Attire	How often does the worker wear:
4.C.2.e.1.d	Wear Common Protective or Safety Equipment such as Safety Shoes, Glasses, Gloves, Hearing Protection, Hard Hats, or Life Jackets	How often does this job require wearing common protective or safety equipment such as safety shoes, glasses, gloves, hearing protection, hard hats or life-jackets?
4.C.2.e.1.e	Wear Specialized Protective or Safety Equipment such as Breathing Apparatus, Safety Harness, Full Protection Suits, or Radiation Protection	How often does this job require wearing specialized protective or safety equipment such as breathing apparatus, safety harness, full protection suits, or radiation protection?
4.C.3	Structural Job Characteristics	This category involves the relationships or interactions between the worker and the structural characteristics of the job
4.C.3.a	Criticality of Position	Amount of impact the worker has on final products and their outcomes
4.C.3.a.1	Consequence of Error	How serious would the result usually be if the worker made a mistake that was not easily correctable?
4.C.3.a.2	Impact of Decisions	The frequency and nature of the impact of worker's decisions on the organization
4.C.3.a.2.a	Impact of Decisions on Co-workers or Company Results	What results do your decisions usually have on other people or the image or reputation or financial resources of your employer?
4.C.3.a.2.b	Frequency of Decision Making	How often is the worker required to make decisions that affect other people, the financial resources, and/or the image and reputation of the organization?
4.C.3.a.4	Freedom to Make Decisions	How much decision making freedom, without supervision, does the job offer?
4.C.3.b	Routine versus Challenging Work	The relative amounts of routine versus challenging work the worker will perform as part of this job
4.C.3.b.2	Degree of Automation	How automated is the job?
4.C.3.b.4	Importance of Being Exact or Accurate	How important is being very exact or highly accurate in performing this job?
4.C.3.b.7	Importance of Repeating Same Tasks	How important are continuous, repetitive, physical activities (like key entry) or mental activities (like checking entries in a ledger) to performing this job?
4.C.3.b.8	Determine Tasks, Priorities and Goals	How much freedom does the worker have in determining the tasks, priorities, or goals of the job?
4.C.3.c	Competition	Amount of competition that the worker will face as part of this job
4.C.3.c.1	Level of Competition	To what extent does this job require the worker to compete or to be aware of competitive pressures?
4.C.3.d	Pace and Scheduling	Description of the role that time plays in the way the worker performs the tasks required by this job
4.C.3.d.1	Time Pressure	How often does this job require the worker to meet strict deadlines?
4.C.3.d.3	Pace Determined by Speed of Equipment	How important is it to this job that the pace is determined by the speed of equipment or machinery? (This does not refer to keeping busy at all times on this job.)
4.C.3.d.4	Work Schedules	How regular are the work schedules for this job?
4.C.3.d.8	Duration of Typical Work Week	Number of hours typically worked in one week.
5	Occupation-Specific Information	Detailed information about specific occupations, including tasks and related job titles.
5.A	Tasks	Occupation-specific activities and duties performed in a job.
5.A.1	Task List	List of tasks for each occupation
5.C	Occupation Title	Primary title and code used to identify a single occupation in the O*NET-SOC taxonomy.
5.C.1	Title	O*NET-SOC occupation title and code
5.D	Occupation Description	A statement of required or important duties performed by workers in an occupation in the O*NET-SOC taxonomy.
5.D.1	Description	O*NET-SOC occupation description
5.E	Job Titles	The names, job titles, or "lay titles" used to describe the jobs in an occupation.
5.E.1	Job Titles List	List of job titles
5.E.2	Sample of Reported Titles List	List of sample of reported titles
6	Workforce Characteristics	Labor market information about jobs, including pay, employment, and future outlook.
6.A	Labor Market Information	Current labor force characteristics of occupations.
6.A.1	Occupational Statistics	Information related to economic conditions and labor force characteristics of occupations
6.B	Occupational Outlook	Future labor force characteristics of occupations.
6.B.1	Occupational Projections	Projections of future economic conditions and labor force characteristics of occupations
